"---\ntitle: Sentence Types\nquestion: What are the different types of sentences and what are they used for?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_sentencetypes\ndependencies:  \nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/sentencetypes\ncredits: \n---\n\n### Description \n\nA **sentence** is a group of words that expresses a complete thought. The basic types of sentences are listed below with the functions they are mainly used for.\n\n  * **Statements**  - These are mainly used to give information. '_This is a fact._'\n  * **Questions**  - These are mainly used to ask for information. '_Do you know him?_'\n  * **Imperative Sentences**  - These are mainly used to express a desire or requirement that someone do something. '_Pick that up._'\n  * **Exclamations**  - These are mainly used to express a strong feeling. '_Ouch, that hurt!_'\n\n\n#### Reasons this is a translation Issue\n\n  * Languages have different ways of showing that a sentence has a particular function. \n  * Some languages use these sentence types for more than one function. \n  * A sentence in the Bible may have a certain sentence type and function, but some languages would not use that type for that function.\n\n####  Examples from the Bible\n\nThe examples below show each of these types used for their main functions.\n\n####  Statements\n\n>In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. (Genesis 1:1 ULB)\n\nStatements can also have other functions. (See [Statements - Other Uses](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_declarative.md))\n\n####  Questions \nThe speakers below used these questions to get information, and the people they were speaking to answered their questions.\n\n<blockquote>Jesus said to them, \"__Do you believe that I can do this?__\" They said to him, \"Yes, Lord.\" (Matthew 9:28 ULB) </blockquote>\n  \n<blockquote>The jailer...said, \"Sirs, __what must I do to be saved?__\" They said, \"Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your house.\" (Acts 16:29-31 ULB)</blockquote>\n\nQuestions can also have other functions. (See: [Rhetorical Question](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol1/src/master/content/figs_rquestion.md))\n\n#### Imperative Sentences\n\nThere are different kinds of imperative sentences: commands, instructions, suggestions, invitations, requests, and wishes.\n\nWith a **command**, the speaker uses his authority and tells someone to do something.\n>__Rise up__, Balak, and __hear__. __Listen__ to me, you son of Zippor. (Numbers 23:18 ULB)\n\nWith an **instruction**, the speaker tells someone how to do something. \n>...but if you want to enter into life, __keep the **commandments**__. ... If you wish to be perfect, __go__, __sell__ what you have, and __give__ it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. (Matthew 19:17, 21 ULB)\n\nWith a **suggestion**, the speaker tells someone something to do that he thinks might help that person. In the example below, Paul was concerned about Timothy's health, so he suggested something Timothy could do in order to be well.\n\n>__You should__ no longer drink water. Instead, __you should__ take a little wine for the stomach and your frequent sicknesses. ( 1 Timothy 5:23 ULB)\n\nSpeakers may intend to be part of the group that does what is suggested. In Genesis 11, the people were saying that it would be good for them all to make bricks together.   \n>They said to one another, \"Come, __let us__ make bricks and bake them thoroughly.\" (Genesis 11:3 ULB)  \n\nWith an **invitation**, the speaker uses politeness or friendliness to suggest that someone do something if he wants. This is usually something that the speaker thinks the listener will enjoy.\n>__Come__ with us and we will do you good. (Numbers 10:29)\n\nWith a **request**, the speaker uses politeness to say that he wants someone to do something. This may include the word 'please' to make it clear that it is a request and not a command. This is usually something that would benefit the speaker.\n<blockquote>__Give us__ today our daily bread. The speaker is asking for something. (Matthew 6:11 ULB)  </blockquote>\n\n<blockquote>Please excuse me. (Luke 14:18 ULB)</blockquote>\n\nWith a **wish** a person expresses what they want to happen. In English they often start with the word \"may\" or \"let.\"\n\nIn Genesis 28, Isaac told Jacob what he wanted God to do for him.   \n>__May God Almighty bless__ you, make you fruitful and multiply you. (Genesis 28:3 ULB)    \n    \nIn Genesis 9, Noah said what he wanted to happen to Canaan.   \n>__Cursed be__ Canaan. __May he be__ a servant to his brothers' servants. (Genesis 9:25 ULB)   \n   \nIn Genesis 21 Hagar expressed her strong desire not to see her son die, and then she moved away so that she would not see him die.   \n>__Let me not look__ upon the death of the child. (Genesis 21:16 ULB)   \n\nImperative sentences also have other functions. (See: [Imperatives - Other Uses](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_imperative.md))\n\n#### Exclamations\n\nExclamations express strong feeling. In the ULB and UDB, they usually have an exclamation mark (!) at the end. \n>Save us, Lord; we are about to die! (Matthew 8:25 ULB)\n\nSee [Exclamations](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_exclamations.md) for other ways that exclamations are shown and ways to translate them.\n\n### Translation Strategies \n\n1. Use your language's ways of showing that a sentence has a particular function.\n1. When a sentence in the Bible has a sentence type that your language would not use for the sentence's function, see the pages below for translation strategies.\n \n\n  * [Statements - Other Uses](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_declarative.md) \n  * [Rhetorical Question](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol1/src/master/content/figs_rquestion.md) \n  * [Imperatives - Other Uses](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_imperative.md)\n  * [Exclamations](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_exclamations.md)\n"
