"---\ntitle: Parallelism\nquestion: What is parallelism?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_parallelism\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_synonparallelism\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/parallelism\ncredits: \n---\n### Description\n\nIn **parallism** two phrases or clauses that are similar in structure or idea are used together. There are different kinds of parallelism. Some of them are the following: \n\n  1. The second clause or phrase means the same as the first. \n  1. The second clarifies or strengthens the meaning of the first. \n  1. The second completes what is said in the first. \n  1. The second says something that contrasts with the first. \n\nParallelism is most commonly found in Old Testament poetry, such as in the books of Psalms and Proverbs.  It also occurs in Greek in the New Testament, both in the four gospels and in the apostles' letters.  \n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nSome languages would not use the kind of parallelism in which the two phrases mean the same thing. They would either think it odd that someone said the same thing twice, or they think that the two phrases must have some difference in meaning.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\nThe second clause or phrase means the same as the first. \n\n>You make him to rule over the works of your hands;  \n>you have put all things under his feet (Psalm 8:6 ULB)\n\n* Both lines say that God made man the ruler of everything. \n\nThe second clarifies or strengthens the meaning of the first.\n\n>The eyes of Yahweh are everywhere,  \n>keeping watch over the evil and the good. (Proverbs 15:3 ULB)  \n\n* The second line tells more specifically what Yahweh watches. \n\nThe second completes what is said in the first. \n\n>I lift up my voice to Yahweh,  \n>and he answers me from his holy hill. (Psalm 3:4 ULB)\n\n* The second line tells what Yahweh does in response to what the person does in the first clause. \n\nThe second says something that contrasts with the first. \n\n>For Yahweh approves of the way of the righteous,  \n>but the way of the wicked will perish. (Psalm 1:6 ULB)\n\n* This contrasts what happens to righteous people with what happens to wicked people. \n\n>A gentle answer turns away wrath,  \n>but a harsh word stirs up anger. (Proverbs 15:1 ULB)\n\n* This contrasts what happens when someone gives a gentle answer with what happens when someone says something harsh.  \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\n  1. For most kinds of parallelism, it is good to translate both of the clauses or phrases.   \n  1. When the two clauses or phrases mean the same thing, some languages would not translate them both. (See [Parallelism with the Same Meaning](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_synonparallelism.md))\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n (See  [Parallelism with the Same Meaning](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_synonparallelism.md)) \n\n\n"
