"---\ntitle: Introduction of New and Old Participants\nquestion: Why cannot the readers of my translation understand who the author was writing about? \nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: writing_participants\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\", \"writing_intro\"]\nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"writing_pronouns\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/writingstyles\ncredits: \n---\nThe first time that people or things are mentioned in a story, they are new participants. After that, whenever they are mentioned, they are old participants. In order to make your translation clear and natural, you will need to refer to the participants in such a way that people will know if they are new participants or ones that they have already read about.\n\n### Description\n\nThe first time that people or things are mentioned in a story, they are __new participants__. After that, whenever they are mentioned, they are __old participants__.\n>Now __there was a Pharisee whose name was Nicodemus__... __This man__ came to Jesus at night time... Jesus replied to __him__ (John 3:1) \n\nThe first underlined phrase introduces Nicodemus as a new participant. He is then referred to as \"This man\" and \"him\" when he is an old participant.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nIn order to make your translation clear and natural, it is necessary to properly refer to the participants in such a way that people will know if they are new participants or participants that they have already read about.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n#### New Participants\n\nSometimes a new participant is introduced with a phrase that says that he existed, such as \"There was a man\" in the example below. The phrase \"There was\" tells us that this man existed. The word \"a\" in \"a man\" tells us that that author is speaking about him for the first time. The rest of the sentence tells where this man was from, who is family was, and what his name was.\n>__There was a man__ from Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah. (Judges 13:2 ULB) \n\nSometimes a new participant is simply mentioned in relation to another person who was already introduced.  In the example below, Manoah's wife is simply referred to as \"his wife\". This phrase shows her relationship to him.\n>There was a man from Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah. __His wife__ was not able to become pregnant and so she had not given birth. (Judges 13:2 ULB)\n\nSometimes a new participant is introduced simply by name because the author assumes that the readers know who the person is. In the book of Judges, the first time that the angel of Yahweh is mentioned, he is referred to simply by his title.\n> The angel of Yahweh went up from Gilgal to Bochim, (Judges 2:1 ULB)\n\n\n#### Old Participants\n\nA person who has already been brought into the story, may then be referred to with a pronoun, with a noun phrase, or by name or title. In the example below, Manoah is referred to with the pronoun \"his,\" and his wife is referred to with the pronoun \"she\".\n\n>__His__ wife was not able to become pregnant and so __she__ had not given birth. (Judges 13:2 ULB)\n\nIn the example below, Manoah's wife is referred to with the noun phrase \"the woman\".\n> The angel of Yahweh appeared to __the woman__ and said to her, (Judges 13:3 ULB)\n\nIn the example below, Manoah is referred to with his name.\n> Then __Manoah__ prayed to Yahweh\n\nSome languages have something on the verb that tells something about the subject. In some of those languages people do not always use noun phrases or pronouns for old participants when they are the subject of the sentence. The marker on the verb gives enough of a clue for the listener to understand who the subject is. (See: [Verbs](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_verbs.md))\n\nIn some languages people do not always have to use a noun or noun phrase to refer to an old participant when that participant is the subject of a sentence. People can understand it from the context.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\n  1. If it is a new participant, use one of your language's ways of introducing new participants.\n  1. If it is not clear who a pronoun refers to, use a noun phrase or name.\n  1. If an old participant is referred to by name or a noun phrase, and people wonder if this is another new participant, try using a pronoun instead. If a pronoun is not needed because people would understand it clearly from the context, then leave out the pronoun.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. If it is a new participant, use one of your language's ways of introducing new participants.\n\n  * **Joseph, a Levite, a man from Cyprus, was given the name Barnabas by the apostles (that is, being interpreted, Son of encouragement).** (Acts 4:36-37 ULB)- Starting the sentence with Joseph's name when he has not been introduced yet might be too quick in some languages.\n      * \"There was a man named Joseph, from Cyprus. He was a Levite and he was given the name Barnabas by the apostles (that is, being interpreted, Son of encouragement).\"\n      * \"There was a Levite from Cyprus whose name was Joseph. The apostles gave him the name Barnabas, which means Son of encouragement.\"  \n\n2. If it is not clear who a pronoun refers to, use a noun phrase or name.\n\n  * **It happened when __he__ finished praying in a certain place, that one of his disciples said, \"Lord, teach us to pray just as John taught his disciples.\"** (Luke 11:1 ULB) - Since this is the first verse in a chapter, readers might wonder who \"he\" refers to.\n      * \"It happened when __Jesus__ finished praying in a certain place, that one of his disciples said, \"Lord, teach us to pray just as John taught his disciples.\"\n\n3. If an old participant is referred to by name or a noun phrase, and people wonder if this is another new participant, try using a pronoun instead. If a pronoun is not needed because people would understand it clearly from the context, then leave out the pronoun.\n\n  * **__Joseph's__ master took __Joseph__ and put __him__ in prison, in the place where all the king's prisoners were put, and __Joseph__ stayed there.** (Genesis 39:20 ULB) - Since Joseph is the main person in the story, some languages might find it odd to use his name so much. They might prefer a pronoun.\n      * \"Joseph's master took __him__ and put __him__ in prison, in the place where all the king's prisoners were put, and __he__ stayed there in the prison.\"\n"
