"---\ntitle: Create Collaborative Translations\nquestion: What are collaborative translations? \nmanual:  translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: guidelines_collaborative\ndependencies:  [\"guidelines_intro\", \"translation_guidelines\"]\nstatus:  reviewed\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"translate_discover\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translation/collaborative\ncredits: \n---\nBible translations that are **collaborative** are those that have been translated by a group of speakers of the same language.\nTo ensure that your translation is of the highest quality, work together with other believers who speak your language to translate, check, and distribute the translated content. Here are some ways to have others help improve the quality of the translation.\n\n  * Read the translation out loud to someone. Have them notice if the sentences connect well. Ask that person to point to words or phrases that do not sound right or are unclear. Make changes so that it sounds as if someone from your community is speaking.\n  * Ask someone to read your translation to check your spelling. You may have spelled a word differently when it was not necessary. Some words change in different situations, but some words can stay the same in every situation. Take note of these changes, so others can know what decisions you have made on the spelling of your language.\n  * Ask yourself if the way you wrote can be recognized easily by speakers of different dialects in your language community. Ask others how they would say something that is not clear in your translation.\nMake changes to the translation before you distribute it to a wider audience.\n\nRemember, if possible, work together with other believers who speak your language to translate, check, and distribute the translated content, ensuring that it is of the highest quality and available to as many people as possible.\n\nYou may also want to watch the video at http://ufw.io/guidelines_collab.\n\n"
