"===== Copy or Borrow Words =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What does it mean to borrow words from another language and how can I do it?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_unknown|Translate Unknowns]]//\n\nSometimes the Bible talks about things that your language may not have a word for. It also talks about people and places that you may not have names for. One way you can deal with this problem is \"borrow\", or copy, the word from another language into your own language. This page tells how to do that.\n\n==== Description ====\n\nSometimes the Bible talks about things that are not part of your culture and that your language may not have a word for.  It also talks about people and places that you may not have a name for. \n\nWhen that happens you  can \"borrow\" the word from the Bible into your own language. This means that  you basically copy it from the other language.  This page tells how to \"borrow\" words.  (There are also other ways of dealing with words for things that are not in your language. See [[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_unknown]]).\n\n==== Examples from the Bible ====\n\n>He saw a __fig__ tree on the roadside  ([[en:bible:notes:mat:21:18|Matthew 21:19]] ULB) \n\nIf there are no fig trees where your language is spoken, you might not already have a name for this kind of tree.\n\n>Above him were the __seraphs__ each one had six wings; with two each covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew.  ([[en:bible:notes:isa:06:01|Isaiah 6:2]] ULB)\n\nYour language might not already have a name for this kind of creature.\n\n>The declaration of the word of Yahweh to Israel by the hand of __Malachi__.  ([[en:bible:notes:mal:01:01|Malachi 1:1]] ULB)\n\nMalachi might not be a name that people who speak your language use. \n\n==== Translation Strategies ====\n\nThere are several things to be aware of when borrowing words from another language.\n  * Different languages use different scripts, such as the Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Cyrillic, Devanagari, and Korean scripts. These scripts use different shapes to represent the letters in their alphabets. \n  * Languages that use the same script might pronounce the letters in that script differently. For example, when speaking German, people pronounce the letter \"j\" the same way that people pronounce the letter \"y\" when speaking English. \n  * Languages do not all have the same sounds or combinations of sounds. For example, many languages do not have the soft \"th\" sound in the English word \"think\" and some languages cannot start a word with a combination of sounds like \"st\" as in \"stop.\" \n\nThere are several ways to borrow a word. \n  - If your language uses a different script from the language you are translating from, you can simply substitute each letter shape with the corresponding letter shape of the script of your language.\n  - You can spell the word as the other language spells it, and pronounce it the way your language normally pronounces those letters.   \n  - You can pronounce the word similarly to the way the other language does, and adjust the spelling to fit the rules of your language.  \n\n\n==== Examples of Translation Strategies Applied ====\n\n1. If your language uses a different script from the language you are translating from, you can simply substitute each letter shape with the corresponding letter shape of the script of your language.\n\n2. You can spell the word as the other language spells it, and pronounce it the way your language normally pronounces those letters.\n  * **Zephaniah**  - This is a man's name.\n      * \"Zephaniah\"\n\n3. You can pronounce the word similarly to the way the other language does, and adjust the spelling to fit the rules of your language.\n  * **Zephaniah**  - If your language does not have the \"z\", you could use \"s\". If your writing system does not use \"ph\" you could use \"f\". Depending on how you pronounce the \"i\" you could spell it with \"i\" or \"ai\" or \"ay\".\n      * \"Sefania\"\n      * \"Sefanaia\"\n      * \"Sefanaya\"\n\n\n\n\n"
