"===== Translate Unknowns =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //How can I translate ideas that my readers are not familiar with?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_sentences|Sentences]]//\n\nHow do I translate words like lion, fig tree, mountain, priest, or temple when people in my culture have never seen these things and we do not have a word for them?\n\n==== Description ====\n\nUnknowns are things that occur in the source text that are not known to the people of your culture. The translationWords pages and the translationNotes will help you understand what they are. After you understand them, you will need to find ways to refer to those things so that people who read your translation will understand what they are.\n>We have here only five loaves of __bread__ and two fish ([[en:bible:notes:mat:14:16|Matthew 14:17]] ULB)\nBread is a particular food made by mixing finely crushed grains with oil, and then cooking the mixture so that it is dry. (Grains are the seeds of a kind of grass.) In some cultures people do not have bread or know what it is. \n\n**Reason this is a translation issue**\n\n  * Readers may not know some of the things that are in the Bible because those things are not part of their own culture. \n  * Readers may have difficulty understanding a text if they do not know some of the things that are mentioned in it.\n\n=== Translation Principles ===  \n\n  * Use words that are already part of your language if possible.\n  * Keep expressions short if possible.\n  * Represent God's commands and historical facts accurately.\n\n==== Examples from the Bible ====\n\n>I will turn Jerusalem into piles of ruins, a hideout for __jackals__ ([[en:bible:notes:jer:09:10|Jeremiah 9:11]] ULB)\nJackals are wild animals like dogs that live in only a few parts of the world.  So they are not known in many places.\n>Beware of false prophets, those who come to you in sheep's clothing, but are truly ravenous __wolves__. ([[en:bible:notes:mat:07:15|Matthew 7:15]] ULB)\nIf wolves do not live where the translation will be read, the readers may not understand that they are fierce, wild animals like dogs that attack and eat sheep.\n>Then they tried to give Jesus wine that was mixed with __myrrh__. But he refused to drink it. ([[en:bible:notes:mrk:15:22|Mark 15:23]] ULB)\nPeople may not know what myrrh is and that it was used as a medicine.\n>to him who made __great lights__ ([[en:bible:notes:psa:136:|Psalm 136:7]]ULB)  \nSome languages have terms for things that give light, like the sun and fire, but they have no general term for lights.\n>your sins ... will be white like __snow__ ([[en:bible:notes:isa:01:18|Isaiah 1:18]] ULB)\nPeople in many parts of the world have not seen snow, but they may have seen it in pictures.\n\n==== Translation Strategies ====\n\nHere are ways you might translate a term that is not known in your language:\n  - Use a phrase that describes the part of the meaning that is important in the particular verse being translated.\n  - Substitute something similar from your language if doing so does not falsely represent a historical fact.\n  - Copy the word from another language, and add a general word or descriptive phrase to help people understand it.\n  - Use a word that is more general in meaning.\n  - Use a word or phrase that is more specific in meaning. \n\n==== Examples of Translation Strategies Applied ====\n\n1. Use a phrase that describes the part of the meaning that is important in the particular verse being translated.\n  * **Beware of false prophets, those who come to you in sheep's clothing, but are truly __ravenous wolves__.** ([[en:bible:notes:mat:07:15|Matthew 7:15]] ULB)\n    * \"Beware of false prophets, those who come to you in sheep's clothing, but __are truly hungry and dangerous animals__.\"\n\n  * **We have here only five __loaves of bread__ and two fish** ([[en:bible:notes:mat:14:16|Matthew 14:17]] ULB)\n    * \"We have here only five __loaves of baked grain seeds__ and two fish\" \n\n2. Substitute something similar from your language if doing so does not falsely represent a historical fact. \n  * **your sins ... will be white like __snow__** ([[en:bible:notes:isa:01:18|Isaiah 1:18]] ULB) This verse is not about snow. It uses snow in a figure of speech to help people understand how white something will be.\n    * \"your sins ... will be white like __milk__\"\n    * \"your sins ... will be white like __the moon__\"\n\n3. Copy the word from another language, and add a general word or descriptive phrase to help people understand it.\n  * **Then they tried to give Jesus wine that was mixed with __myrrh__. But he refused to drink it.** ([[en:bible:notes:mrk:15:22|Mark 15:23]] ULB) - People may understand better what myrrh is if it is used with the general word \"medicine.\" \n    * \"Then they tried to give Jesus wine that was mixed with __a medicine called myrrh__. But he refused to drink it.\"\n\n  * **We have here only five loaves of __bread__ and two fish** ([[en:bible:notes:mat:14:16|Matthew 14:17]] ULB) - People may understand better what bread is if it is used with a phrase that tells what it is made of (seeds) and how it is prepared (crushed and baked).\n    * \"We have here only five loaves of __baked crushed seed bread__ and two fish\"\n\n4. Use a word that is more general in meaning.\n  * **I will turn Jerusalem into piles of ruins, a hideout for __jackals__** ([[en:bible:notes:jer:09:10|Jeremiah 9:11]] ULB)\n    * \"I will turn Jerusalem into piles of ruins, a hideout for __wild dogs__\"\n\n  * **We have here only five __loaves of bread__ and two fish** ([[en:bible:notes:mat:14:16|Matthew 14:17]] ULB)\n    * \"We have here only five __loaves of baked food__ and two fish\" \n\n5. Use a word or phrase that is more specific in meaning. \n  * **to him who made __great lights__** ([[en:bible:notes:psa:136:006|Psalm 136:7]] ULB)\n    * \"to him who made __the sun and the moon__\"\n\n"
