"===== Word Order =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What does \"word order\" mean?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_grammar|Grammar Topics]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_partsofspeech|Parts of Speech]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_sentences|Sentences]]//\n\n==== Description ==== \n\nMost languages have a normal way of ordering the parts of a sentence. It is not the same in all languages. Translators need to know what the normal word order is in their language.\n\n==== The Main Parts of a Sentence ==== \n\nMost sentences have three basic important parts: subject, object, and verb. Subjects and objects are usually nouns (i.e., a person, place, thing, or idea) or pronouns. Verbs show action or a state of being.\n\n=== Subject ===\n\nThe subject is usually what the sentence is about. It usually performs some action or is being described. \nA subject may be **active**: it does something, such as sing, or work, or teach.\n  * __Peter__ sings the song well.\n\nA subject may have something done to it.\n  * __Peter__ was fed good food.\n\nA subject can be described or it can be in a **state**, such as being happy, sad, or angry. \n  * __He__ is tall.\n  * __The boy__ is happy.\n\n=== Object === \n\nThe **object** is often the thing that the subject does something to. \n  * Peter hit __the ball__. \n  * Peter read __a book__.\n  * Peter sang __the song__ well. \n  * Peter ate __good food__.\n\n=== Verb === \n\nThe verb shows an action or a state of being.\n  * Peter __sings__ the song well.\n  * Peter __is singing__.\n  * Peter __is__ tall.\n\n=== Preferred Word Order === \n\nAll languages have a preferred word order. The examples below show the order of the subject, object, and verb in \"Peter hit the ball\" for some languages.\nIn some languages, such as English, the order is Subject-Verb-Object.\n  * Peter hit the ball.\nIn some languages the order is Subject-Object-Verb.\n  * Peter the ball hit.\nIn some languages the order is Verb-Subject-Object.\n  * Hit Peter the ball.\n\n=== Changes in Word Order ===\n\nWord order can change if the sentence:\n  * is a question or command\n  * describes a state of being (He is happy. He is tall)\n  * expresses a condition, such as with the the word \"if\"\n  * has a location\n  * has a time element\n  * is in a poem\nWord order can also change \n  * if there is some kind of emphasis on a certain part of the sentence\n  * if the sentence is really about something other than the subject\n\n==== Translation Principles ====\n\n  * Know which word order is preferred in your language.\n  * Use your language's preferred word order unless there is some reason in your language to change it.\n  * Translate the sentence so that the meaning is accurate and clear and so that it sounds natural.\n\n\nAlso view the video for computer (see http://youtu.be/PzMpNyCNlLQ ) or portable device (see http://youtu.be/jxeGp2-TuZg ).\n\n\n\n"
