"---\ntitle: Biblical Imagery - Animals\nquestion: What are some examples of animals and animal body parts that are used as images in the Bible?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: translate_bita_animals\ndependencies:  [\"translate_bita_part1\", \"figs_metaphor\", \"figs_metonymy\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/biblicalimageryta_animals\ncredits: \n---\nSome images from the Bible involving body parts and human qualities are listed below in alphabetical order. The word in all capital letters represents an idea. The word does not necessarily appear in every verse that has the image, but the idea that the word represents does.\n\n\n#### An ANIMAL HORN represents strength\n\n> God is my rock. I take refuge in him.  \n> He is my shield, the horn of my salvation, my stronghold, and my refuge,   \n> the one who saves me from violence. (2 Samuel 22:3 ULB)\n\nThe \"horn of my salvation\" is the strong one who saves me.\n\n>There I will make the horn of David to grow. (Psalm 132:17 ULB)\n\nThe \"horn of David\" is King David's military strength.\n\n#### BIRDS represent people who are in danger and defenseless\n\nThis is because some birds are easily trapped.\n\n<blockquote>My enemies have relentlessly hunted me like a bird, without cause. (Lamentations 3:52 ULB) </blockquote>\n\n>Save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter,  \n>like a bird from the hand of the fowler. (Proverbs 6:5 ULB)\n\nA fowler is a person who catches birds, and a snare is a small trap.\n\n>We have escaped like a bird out of the snare of the fowlers;  \n>the snare has been broken, and we have escaped. (Psalm 124:7 ULB)\n\n#### BIRDS THAT EAT MEAT represent enemies who attack swiftly\n\nIn Habakuk  and Hosea, Israel's enemies who would come and attack them were compared to an eagle. \n<blockquote> and their horsemen come from a great distance—they fly like an eagle hurrying to eat! (Habakkuk 1:8 ULB) </blockquote>\n\n>An eagle is coming over the house of me, Yahweh.  \n> ... Israel has rejected what is good,  \n>and the enemy will pursue him. (Hosea 8:1,3)\n\nIn Isaiah, God called a certain foreign king a bird of prey because he would come quickly and attack Israel's enemies.\n>I call a bird of prey from the east, the man of my choice from a distant land; (Isaiah 46:11 ULB)\n\n#### A BIRD'S WINGS represent protection \n\nThis is because birds spread their wings over their chicks to protect them from danger.\n>Protect me like the apple of your eye; hide me under the shadow of your wings  \n> from the presence of the wicked ones who assault me, my enemies who surround me. (Psalms 17:8-9 ULB)\n\n\n>Be merciful to me, God, be merciful to me,  \n>for I take refuge in you until these troubles are over.  \n>I stay under your wings for protection until this destruction is over.  (Psalm 57:1 ULB)\n\n#### DANGEROUS ANIMALS represent dangerous people \n\nIn Psalms, David referred to his enemies as lions.\n>My life is among lions;  \n>I am among those who are ready to devour me.  \n>I am among people whose teeth are spears and arrows,  \n>and whose tongues are sharp swords.  \n>Be exalted, God, above the heavens (Psalm 57:4 ULB)\n\nPeter called the devil a roaring lion.\n>Be sober, be watchful. Your adversary—the devil—like a roaring lion is stalking around, looking for someone to devour. (1 Peter 5:8 ULB)\n\nIn Matthew, Jesus called false prophets wolves because of the harm they did to people by their lies.\n>Beware of false prophets, those who come to you in sheep's clothing, but are truly ravenous wolves. (Matthew 7:15 ULB)\n\nIn Matthew, John the Baptist called the religious leaders poisonous snakes because of the harm they did by teaching lies.\n>But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to him for baptism, he said to them, \"You offspring of poisonous snakes, who warned you to flee from the wrath that is coming? (Matthew 3:7 ULB)\n\n#### EAGLES represent strength  \n\n> He satisfies your life with good things  \n> so that your youth is renewed like the eagle. (Psalm 103:5 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>For Yahweh says this, \"See, the enemy will come flying like an eagle, spreading out his wings over Moab.\"  (Isaiah 48:40 ULB) </blockquote>\n\n\n#### SHEEP or a FLOCK OF SHEEP represents people who need to be led or are in danger \n>My people have been a lost flock. Their shepherds have led them astray in the mountains; (Jeremiah 50:6 ULB)\n\n<blockquote>He led his own people out like sheep and guided them through the wilderness like a flock. (Psalm 78:52 ULB) </blockquote>\n\n>Israel is a sheep scattered and driven away by lions. First the king of Assyria devoured him;  \n>then after this, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon broke his bones. (Jeremiah 50:17 ULB) \n\n\n<blockquote>See, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be as wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Watch out for people! They will deliver you up to councils, and they will whip you in their synagogues. (Matthew 10:16 ULB) </blockquote>\n"
