"===== Making Assumed Knowledge and Implicit Information Explicit =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What can I do if the target language speakers do not know some important assumed knowledge or cannot understand some new information that the original speaker or writer left implicit?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit|Assumed Knowledge and Implicit Information]]//\n\nModern readers may not know some of things that the people in the Bible and the people who first read it knew. This can make it hard for them to understand what a speaker or writer says, and to learn things that the speaker left implicit. Translators may need to state some things clearly in the translation that the original speaker or writer left unstated or implicit.\n\n==== Description ====\n\nWhen someone speaks or writes, he expects his audience to know certain things that they can think about to help them understand what he means by his words. The things he actually says are **explicit information**. The things that he expects them to already know or be able to learn are **implicit information**. Normally a speaker or writer does not tell people things that he believes they already know. And sometimes he does not state clearly things that expects them to be able to understand from what he says.\n\n=== Reasons this is a translation issue ===\n\n  * Readers may not understand the message if they do not know things that the original speakers and hearers knew.\n  * Modern readers do not know everything that the original speakers and hearers in the Bible knew.\n\n==== Examples from the Bible ====\n\n>Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! If the mighty deeds had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you. (Matthew 11:22 ULB)\nThe people that Jesus was talking to knew that the people of Tyre and Sidon were very wicked, and that the day of judgment is a time when God will judge every person. They also believed that they themselves were righteous and did not need to repent. Today's readers need to know these things in order to understand that Jesus was telling the people that they would be punished more severely because they did to repent, even though they saw the mighty deeds that Jesus did.\n>Why do your disciples violate the traditions of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat. (Matthew 15:2 ULB)\nModern readers could think the Pharisees were saying that the disciples should wash their hands before eating in order to keep from getting sick from germs on the hands. But for the Jews, washing the hands before eating was a ceremony that they practiced in order to be ritually clean. The elders had given them this tradition, and they believed that people had to follow all the traditions of the elders in order to be righteous. This is assumed knowledge. The Pharisees were accusing Jesus disciples of not being righteous. This is implicit knowledge.\n\n==== Translation Strategies ==== \n\nIf readers have enough assumed knowledge to be able to understand the message and any important implicit information that goes with it, then consider leaving that knowledge unstated and leave the implicit information implicit. \n  - If readers cannot understand the message because they do not have certain assumed knowledge, then provide that knowledge as explicit information. \n  - If readers cannot understand important implicit information, then state that information explicitly.\n\n==== Examples of Translation Strategies Applied ====\n\n1. If readers cannot understand the message because they do not know certain implicit information, then state that information clearly.\n\n  * **it will be more tolerable for __Tyre and Sidon__  at the day of judgment than for you**  (Matthew 11:22 ULB) - Assumed knowledge is that the people of Tyre and Sidon were very very wicked. This can be stated explicitly.\n    * \"it will be more tolerable for __Tyre and Sidon, cities whose people were very wicked__ at the day of judgment than for you\"\n\n  * **Jesus said to him, \"Foxes __have holes__, and the birds of the sky __have nests__, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.\"**  (Matthew 8:20 ULB) - Assumed knowledge was that the foxes slept in their holes and birds slept in their nests.\n      * \"Jesus said to him, \"Foxes __have holes to live in__, and the birds of the sky __have nests to live in__, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head and sleep.\"\"\n\n  * **Why do your disciples violate the traditions of the elders? For __they do not wash their hands__  when they eat.**  (Matthew 15:2 ULB)\n      * \"Why do your disciples violate the traditions of the elders? For __they do not go through the ceremonial handwashing ritual__  when they eat.\"\n\n2. If readers cannot understand important implicit information, then state that information explicitly.\n  * **it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon  at the day of judgment than for you**  (Matthew 11:22 ULB) - God's would not only judge the people; he would punish them. This is implicit information. It can be made explicit.\n    * \"God will __punish Tyre and Sidon__, cities whose people were very wicked, __less severely than he will punish you__\"\n    * \"God will __punish you more severely__ than Tyre and Sidon, cities whose people were very wicked.\"\n\n  * **Then a scribe came to him and said, \"Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.\" Jesus said to him, \"Foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.\"** (Matthew 8:19, 20 ULB) - Jesus referred to himself as the Son of Man.  Important implicit information is is that if the scribe wanted to follow Jesus, he would have to live like Jesus without a house.\n      * \"Jesus said to him, \"Foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but __I, the Son of Man__, have nowhere to lay my head.\"\"\n      * \"Jesus said to him, \"Foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but Son of Man has __no home to rest in__. If you want to follow me, you will live as I live.\"\"\n\n\n\n"
