"===== Forms of 'You' - Dual/Plural =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //How do I know if the word 'you' is dual or plural?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_you|Forms of You]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_pronouns|Pronouns]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_partsofspeech|Parts of Speech]]//\n\nSome languages have a **singular** form of \"you\" for when the word \"you\" refers to just one person, and a **plural** form for when the word \"you\" refers to more than one person. Some languages also have a **dual** form of \"you\" for when the word \"you\" refers to only two people. Translators who speak one of these languages will always need to know what the speaker meant so they can choose the right word for \"you\" in their language.\n\n==== Description ====\n\nSome languages have a **singular** form of \"you\" for when the word \"you\" refers to just one person, and a **plural** form for when the word \"you\" refers to more than one person. Some languages also have a **dual** form of \"you\" for when the word \"you\" refers to only two people. Other languages, such as English, have only one form, which people use regardless of how many people it refers to.\n\nThe Bible was first written in the Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek languages. These languages all have a singular form of \"you\" and a plural form of \"you.\" When we read the Bible in those languages, the pronouns show us  whether the word \"you\" refers to one person or more than one. However, they do not show us whether it refers to only two people or more than two people. When the pronouns do not show us how many people the word \"you\" refers to, we need to look at the context to see who the speaker was referring to.\n\n=== Reasons this is a Translation Issue === \n\n  * Translators who speak a language that has distinct singular, dual, and plural forms of \"you\" will always need to know what the speaker meant so they can choose the right word for \"you\" in their language.\n  * Many languages also have different forms of the verb depending on whether the subject is singular or plural. So even if there is no pronoun meaning \"you,\" translators of these languages will need to know if the speaker was referring to one person or more than one.\n\nOften the context will make it clear whether the word \"you\" refers to one person or more than one. If you look at the other pronouns in the sentence, they will help you know the number of people who were being spoken to.\n\n==== Examples from the Bible ====\n\n>__James and John__, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said, \"Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask you.\" He [Jesus] said to them, \"What do __you __ want me to do for __you__?\" ([[en:bible:notes:mrk:10:35|Mark 10:35-36]] ULB)\nJesus is asking the **two**, James and John, what they want him to do for them. If the target language has a **dual** form of \"you,\" it would be appropriate to use it here. If the target language does not have a dual form, then the plural form would be appropriate.\n>… and Jesus sent out two of his disciples and said to them, \"Go into the village opposite us. As soon as  __you__ enter it,  __you__ will find a colt that has never been ridden. Untie it and bring it to me.  ([[en:bible:notes:mrk:11:01|Mark 11:1-2]] ULB)\nThe context makes it clear that Jesus is addressing **two** persons. If the target language has a **dual** form of \"you,\" it would be appropriate to use it here. If the target language does not have a dual form, then the plural form would be appropriate. \n>James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes of the Dispersion, greetings. Consider it all joy, my brothers, when __you__ experience various troubles, knowing that the testing of __your__ faith works endurance.  ([[en:bible:notes:jas:01:01|James 1:1-3]] ULB)\nJames wrote this letter to many people, so the word \"you\" refers to many people. If the target language has a **plural** form of \"you,\" it would be appropriate to use it here.\n\n==== Strategies for finding out how many people \"you\" refers to ==== \n\n  - Look at the notes to see if they tell whether \"you\" refers to one person or more than one person.\n  - Look at the UDB to see if it says anything that would show you whether the word \"you\" refers to one person or more than one person.\n  - If you have a Bible that is written in a language that distinguishes \"you\" singular from \"you\" plural, see which form of \"you\" that Bible has in that sentence. \n  - Look at the context to see who the speaker was talking to and who responded.\n\nAlso watch the video for computer (see http://youtu.be/cPtjzJ2Advk ) or the tablet/phone (see http://youtu.be/AVITfDEk8nc ).\n"
