"---\ntitle: Statements - Other Uses \nquestion: What other uses are there for statements?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_declarative\ndependencies: [\"figs_sentencetypes\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/declarativefunctions\ncredits: \n---\n### Description \n\nNormally statements are used to give information. Sometimes they are used in the Bible for other functions.\n\n**Reason this is a translation issue**: Some languages would not use a statement for some of the functions that statements are used for in the Bible.\n\n#### Examples from the Bible\n\nStatements are normally used to give **information**. All of the sentences in John 1:6-8 below are statements, and their function is to give information.\n\n> There was a man who was sent from God, whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify about the light, that all might believe through him. John was not the light, but came that he might testify about the light. (John 1:6-8 ULB)\n\nA statement can also be used as a **command** to tell someone what to do. In the examples below, the high priest used statements with the verb \"will\" to tell people what to do.\n>He commanded them, saying, \"This is what you **must** do. A third of you who come on the Sabbath _will_ keep watch over the king's house, and a third _will_ be at the Sur Gate, and a third at the gate behind the guardhouse.\" (2 Kings 11:5 ULB)\n\nA statement can also be used to give **instructions**. The speaker below was not just telling Joseph about something Joseph would do in the future; he was telling Joseph what to do.\n> She will give birth to a son, and _you will call his name Jesus_, for he will save his people from their sins. (Matthew 1:21 ULB)\n\nA statement can also be used to make a **request**. The man with leprosy was not just saying what Jesus was able to do. He was asking Jesus to heal him.\n>Behold, a leper came to him and bowed before him, saying, \"Lord, if you are willing, _you can make me clean_.\" (Matthew 8:2 ULB)\n\nA statement can also be used to **perform** something. By telling Adam that the ground was cursed because of him, God actually cursed it. \n>cursed is the ground because of you; (Genesis 3:17 ULB)\n\nBy telling a man that his sins were forgiven, Jesus forgave the man's sins.\n>Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralyzed man, \"Son, _your sins are forgiven_.\"  (Luke 2:5 ULB)\n\n####  Translation Strategies \n1. If the function of a statement would not be understood correctly in your language, _use a sentence type_ that would express that function.\n1. If the function of a statement would not be understood correctly in your language, _add a sentence type_ that would express that function.\n1. If the function of a statement would not be understood correctly in your language, _use a verb form_ that would express that function.\n\n####  Examples of Translation Strategies Applied \n\n1. If the function of a statement would not be understood correctly in your language, use a sentence type that would express that function. \n\n  * **She will give birth to a son, and __you will call his name Jesus__, for he will save his people from their sins.** (Matthew 1:21 ULB) The phrase \"you will call his name Jesus\" is an instruction. It can be translated as a command.\n      * \"She will give birth to a son. __Call his name Jesus__, for he will save his people from their sins. \n\n2. If the function of a statement would not be understood correctly in your language, add a sentence type that would express that function. \n\n  * **Lord, if you are willing, __you can make me clean__.** (Matthew 8:2 ULB)The function of \"you can make me clean\" is to make a request.\n      * \"Lord, if you are willing, __you can make me clean. Please do so.__\" \n      * \"Lord, if you are willing, __please make me clean. I know you can do so.__\" \n\n3. If the function of a statement would not be understood correctly in your language, use a verb form that would express that function.\n\n  * **She will give birth to a son, and __you will call his name Jesus__, for he will save his people from their sins.** (Matthew 1:21 ULB)\n      * \"She will give birth to a son, and __you must call his name Jesus__, for he will save his people from their sins. \n\n  * **Son, your sins are forgiven.**  (Luke 2:5 ULB)\n      * \"Son, I forgive your sins.\"\n"
