"===== Meaning-Based Translations =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What are Meaning Based Translations?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:guidelines_intro|The Qualities of a Good Translation]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_process|The Translation Process]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_literal|Literal Translations]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_fandm|Form and Meaning]]//\n\n==== Introduction ====\n\nWe have looked closely at literal translations. Now, we will look at meaning-based translations.\n\nMeaning-based translations are also called: \n\n  * meaning-equivalent\n  * idiomatic\n  * dynamic\n\n==== Key Characteristic ====\n\nThe key characteristic of meaning-based translations is that they give priority to translating the meaning over reproducing the form of the source text. That is, they **change the form of the text as needed in order to make the meaning clear.**  The most common types of changes that meaning-based translations make are:\n  * change word order to match the grammar of the target language\n  * change order of reasons or results to match the normal order of the flow of logic in the target language\n  * substitute or explain idioms\n  * explain or translate terms from other languages (ex: \"Golgotha\" = \"place of the skull\")\n  * use phrases with simpler words instead of trying to find single word equivalents for difficult or uncommon words in the source text\n  * replace terms that are unknown in the target culture with equivalent terms or descriptions\n  *replace connecting words that the target language does not use with connecting words that the target language needs\n\n==== Examples of Meaning-Based Translations ====\n\nWhat does a meaning-based translation look like? We will look at how different versions translate the same verse.\n\nIn Luke 3:8, //John the Baptist rebukes the self-righteous people who came to be baptized.//\n\nThe **Greek **  text of the first half of the verse is shown below.\n\n>Ποιήσατε οὖν καρποὺς ἀξίους τῆς μετανοίας\n\nThe **English **  translation in the same order as each Greek word, with some alternative English words to choose from, is below.\n\n>Do/make/produce therefore fruits fit/appropriate of the repentance\n\n=== Literal ===\n\nA literal translation would usually follow the words and order of the Greek text as closely as possible. This is the purpose of the ULB, so it says:\n\n>Produce fruits that are worthy of repentance (Luke 3:8 ULB)\n\nNote that this fairly-literal translation retains the words \"fruits\" and \"repentance.\" The word order is also very similar to the Greek text.\n\n=== Meaning-Based ===\n\nMeaning-based translations, on the other hand, are more likely to change the words and order if the translators think it will help to clarify the meaning. Consider these two meaning-based translations:\n\n>…prove that you have turned from sin by doing worthy deeds.  (Living Bible)\n\n>Prove by the way you live that you have repented of your sins and turned to God.  (New Living Translation)\n\n>Do the things that show that you have truly turned away from your sinful behavior! (UDB)\n\nNotice that all of these translations have changed the word order to be more natural in English. Also, the word \"fruits\" no longer appears. In fact, the Living Bible and UDB translations do not use any of the words in the ULB translation. Instead, rather than \"fruits,\" the meaning-based translations refer to \"deeds,\" \"things,\" or to \"the way you live.\" \"Fruits\" in this verse is used as part of a metaphor. The meaning of \"fruits\" in this metaphor is \"the things that a person does.\" (See [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]].) \n\nSo these translations translated the meaning of \"fruit\" in this context, rather than just the word. They also used more understandable phrases such as, \"turned from sin\" rather than the single difficult word, \"repentance,\" or they explained the word by saying, \"repented of your sins and turned to God.\"  The meaning in all of them is the same, but the form is very different. In the meaning-based translations, the meaning is much clearer. This is the kind of translation that we recommend for OL Bible translation.\n"
