"---\ntitle: Fractions\nquestion: What are fractions and how can I translate them?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: translate_fraction\ndependencies:  [\"translate_numbers\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"translate_ordinal\", \"translate_decimal\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/translateunknowns-fractions\ncredits: \n---\nFractions are a kind of number that refer to parts of a thing or to groups within a larger group of people or things. Some languages do not have this kind of number.\n\n### Description\n\nFractions are a kind of number that refer to equal parts of a thing or to equal groups within a larger group of people or things.  An item or a group of items is divided into two or more parts or groups, and a fraction refers to one or more of those parts or groups.  \n>For the drink offering, you must offer __a third__ of a hin of wine. (Numbers 15:7 ULB)   \n\nA hin is a container used for measuring wine and other liquids. They were to divide a hin container into three parts and fill up only one part and offer that. \n>__a third__ of the ships were destroyed. (Revelation 8:9 ULB) \n\nThere were many ships. If all those ships were divided into three equal groups of ships, one group of ships was destroyed.  \n \nMost fractions in English simply have \"-th\" added to the end of the number. \n\n| Number of parts the whole is divided into | Fraction  |\n| -------- | -------- |\n| four | fourth | \n| ten | tenth | \n| one hundred | one hundredth |\n| one thousand | one thousandth |\n\n \nSome fractions in English do not follow that pattern. \n\n| Number of parts the whole is divided into | Fraction  |\n| -------- | -------- |\n| two | half | \n| three | third | \n| five | fifth |\n\n\n \n**Reason this is a translation issue:** Some languages do not have fractions. They may simply talk about parts or groups, but they do not use fractions to tell how big a part is or how many are included in a group. \n \n### Examples From the Bible\n\n>Now to __one half__ of the tribe of Manasseh, Moses had given them an inheritance in Bashan, but to the other __half__, Joshua gave an inheritance beside their brothers in the land west of the Jordan.  (Joshua 22:7 ULB) \n\nThe tribe of Manasseh divided into two groups.  The phrase \"one half of the tribe of Manasseh\" refers one of those groups. The phrase \"the other half\" refers to the other group. \n>The four angels who had been prepared for that very hour, that day, that month, and that year, were released to kill __a third__ of humanity. (Revelation 9:15 ULB) \n\nIf all the people were to be divided into three equal groups, then the number of people in one group would be killed. \n>You must also prepare __a fourth__ of a hin of wine as the drink offering. (Numbers 15:5 ULB) \n\nThey were to divide a hin of wine into four equal parts and prepare one of them.  \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf a fraction in your language would give the right meaning, consider using it. If not, you could consider these strategies.\n\n  1. Tell the number of parts or groups that the item would be divided into, and then tell the number of parts or groups that is being referred to. \n  1. For measurements such as for weight and length, use a unit that your people might know or the unit in the UDB. \n  1. For measurements, use ones that are used in your language. In order to do that you would need to know how your measurements relates to the metric system and figure out each measurement. \n\n### Examples of These Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Tell the number of parts or groups that the item would be divided into, and then tell the number of parts or groups that is being referred to. \n\n  * **__A third__ of the ocean became red like blood**  (Revelation 8:8 ULB) \n      * \"It was like they __divided__ the ocean __into three parts__, and __one part__ of the ocean became blood.\" \n\n  * **then you must offer with the bull a grain offering of __three tenths__ of an ephah of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil.**  (Numbers 15:9 ULB)\n      * \"then you must __divide__ an ephah of fine flour __into ten parts__ and mix __three of those parts__ with half a hin of oil. Then you must offer that grain offering along with the bull.\" \n\n2. For measurements, use the measurements that are given in the UDB. The translators of the UDB have already figured how to represent the amounts in the metric system. \n\n  * **__two thirds of a shekel__**  (1 Samuel 13:21 ULB)\n      * \"__eight grams__ of silver\"  (1 Samuel 13:21 UDB)  \n\n  * **__three tenths of an ephah__ of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil.**  (Numbers 15:9, ULB) \n      * \"__6.5 liters__ of finely ground flour mixed with about two liters of olive oil.\" (Numbers 15:9 UDB) \n\n3. For measurements, use ones that are used in your language. In order to do that you would need to know how your measurements relates to the metric system and figure out each measurement. \n\n   * **__three tenths of an ephah__ of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil.**  (Numbers 15:9, ULB)\n       * \"__six quarts__ of fine flour mixed with __two quarts__ of oil.\" \n\n"
