"---\ntitle: Imperatives - Other Uses\nquestion: What other uses are there for imperative sentences in the Bible?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_imperative\ndependencies:  [\"figs_sentencetypes\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/imperativefunctions\ncredits: \n---\n\n### Description \n\nImperative sentences are mainly used to express a desire or requirement that someone do something. Sometimes imperative sentences in the Bible have other uses.\n\n**Reason this is a translation issue**: Some languages would not use an imperative sentence for some of the functions that they are used for in the Bible.\n\n### Examples from the Bible \n\nSpeakers often use imperative sentences to tell or ask their listeners to do something. In Genesis 2, God spoke to Isaac and told him not to go to Egypt but to live where God would tell him to live.\n\n> Now Yahweh appeared to him and said, \"Do not go down to Egypt; live in the land that I tell you to live in. (Genesis 26:2 ULB)\n\nSometimes imperative sentences in the Bible have other uses. \n\n#### Imperatives that make things happen\n\nGod can make things happen by commanding that they happen. Jesus healed a man by commanding that the man be healed. The man could not obey the command, but Jesus caused him to be healed by commanding it. (\"Be clean\" means \"Be healed.\")\n> \"I am willing. _Be clean_.\" Immediately he was cleansed of his leprosy. (Matthew 8:3 ULB)\n\nIn Genesis 1, God commanded that there should be light, and by commanding it, he caused it to exist.\n>God said, \"_Let there be light_,\" and there was light. (Genesis 1:3 ULB)\n\n#### Imperatives that Function as Conditions  \nAn imperative sentence can also be used to tell the **condition** under which something will happen.  The proverbs mainly tell about life and things that often happen. The purpose of Proverbs 4:6 below is not primarily to give a command, but to teach what people can expect to happen **if** they love wisdom.\n\n>do not abandon wisdom and she will watch over you; \n>love her and she will keep you safe. (Proverbs 4:6 ULB)\n\nThe purpose of Proverbs 22:6 below is teach what people can expect to happen _if_ they teach their children the way they should go. \n\n>Teach a child the way he should go,\n>and when he is old he will not turn away from that instruction. (Proverbs 22:6 ULB)\n\n### Translation Strategies \n\n1. If people would not use an imperative sentence to cause something to happen, try using a statement instead.\n1. If people would not understand that a sentence is used to cause something to happen, add a connecting word like \"so\" to show that what happened was a result of what was said.\n1. If people would not use a command as a condition, translate it as a statement with the word \"if.\" \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied \n\n1. If people would not use an imperative sentence to cause something to happen, try using a statement instead.\n\n  * **Be clean.** (Matthew 8:3 ULB)\n      * \"You are now clean.\"\n      * \"I now cleanse you.\" \n\n  * **God said, \"Let there be light,\" and there was light.**  (Genesis 1:3 ULB)\n      * \"God said, \"There is now light\" and there was light.\n\n2. If people would not understand that a sentence is used to cause something to happen, add a connecting word like \"so\" to show that what happened was a result of what was said. \n\n  * **God said, \"Let there be light,\" and there was light.**  (Genesis 1:3 ULB)\n      * \"God said, 'Let there be light,' _so_ there was light.\"\n\n3. If people would not use a command as a condition, translate it as a statement with the word \"if.\" \n\n>**Teach a child the way he should go,**  \n>**and when he is old he will not turn away from that instruction.** (Proverbs 22:6 ULB)\n\nTranslated as:\n>\"_If_ you teach a child the way he should go,  \n>when he is old he will not turn away from that instruction.\"\n\n"
