"===== Using translationQuestions =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //How can translationQuestions help me make a better translation?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_help]]//\n\n==== translationQuestions ====\n\nIt is the duty of the translator, to the best of his ability, to make sure that each Bible passage he translates has the meaning that the writer of that Bible passage intended it to communicate. In order to do this, he will need to study translation helps prepared by Bible scholars, including the translationQuestions resource. \n\nThe translationQuestions are about information as it appears in the story on in the ULB and can be used to self-check your translation. \n\nUsing the translationQuestions during community checks will help the translator know if the Target Language translation is clear and accurate. If the community member's answer and the answer in the program are the same, then the translation might be clear and accurate.\n\n\n==== Checking Translations with the translationQuestions ====\n\nIn order to use translationQuestions, follow these steps when doing a self-check:\n  - Translate a passage, or chapter, of the Bible.\n  - Look at the section called \"Questions.\"\n  - Read the question entry for that passage.\n  - Think of the answer from the translation. Try to not answer from what you know from other Bible translations.\n  - Click on the question to have the answer displayed.\n  - If your answer matches the printed answer, you have done a good translation.\n\nIn order to use translationQuestions, follow these steps when doing a community-check:\n  - Read the newly completed translation of a Bible chapter to one or more community members. Tell the listeners to try to not remember other translations of the same chapter while this translation is being read to them.\n  - Look at the section called \"Questions.\"\n  - Read the question entry for that chapter.\n  - Ask them to answer the question. Remind the community members to think of the answer from the translation. \n  - Click on the question to have the answer displayed.\n  - If the community member's answer matches the printed answer, you have done a good translation."
