"---\ntitle: Symbolic Action\nquestion: What is a symbolic action and how do I translate it?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: translate_symaction\ndependencies:  [\"translate_unknown\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/symbolicaction\ncredits: \n---\nA symbolic action is something that someone does in order to express a certain idea. For example, in some cultures people nod their head up and down to mean \"Yes\" or turn their head from side to side to mean \"No\". Symbolic actions do not mean the same things in all cultures.\n\nTranslators need to understand what people in the Bible meant when they used symbolic actions. If an action does not mean the same thing in their own culture, they need to figure out how to translate what the action meant.\n\n### Description\n\nA symbolic action is something that someone does in order to express a certain idea. An action does not have to actually be performed; it may simply be referred to.  \n\n#### Examples of symbolic actions\n\n  * In some cultures people shake hands when they meet to show that they are willing to be friendly.\n  * In some cultures people bow when they  meet to show respect to each other. \n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nAn action may have a meaning in one culture, and a different meaning or no meaning at all in another culture.  For example, in some cultures raising the eyebrows means \"I am surprised\" or \"What did you say?\" In others cultures it means \"Yes.\"  \n\nIn the Bible people did things that had certain meanings in their culture. When we read the Bible we might not understand what someone meant if we interpret the action based on what it means in our own culture. \n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>Jairus fell down at Jesus' feet.  (Luke 8:41 ULB)\n\nMeaning of symbolic action: He did this to show great respect to Jesus. \n>Look, I stand at the door and __knock__. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to his home, and have a meal with him, and he with me. (Revelation 3:20 ULB)\n\nMeaning of symbolic action: When people want someone to welcome them into their home, they stand at the door and knock on it. \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf people would correctly understand what a symbolic action meant to the people in the Bible, consider using it. If not, here are some strategies for it.\n\n1. Tell what the person did and why he did it.  \n1. Do not tell what the person did, but tell what he meant. \n1. Use an action from your own culture that has the same meaning. Do this only in poetry, parables, and sermons. Do not do this when there actually was a person who did a specific action.  \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Tell what the person did and why he did it. \n\n  * **Jairus fell down at Jesus' feet.** (Luke 8:41 ULB) \n      * \"Jairus fell down at Jesus' feet in order to show that he greatly respected him.\" \n\n  * **Look, I stand at the door and knock.** (Revelation 3:20 ULB) \n      * \"Look, I stand at the door and knock on it, asking you to let me in.\" \n\n2. Do not tell what the person did, but tell what he meant. \n\n  * **Jairus fell down at Jesus' feet.** (Luke 8:41) \n      * \"Jairus showed Jesus great respect.\" \n\n  * **Look, I stand at the door and knock.** (Revelation 3:20) \n      * \"Look, I stand at the door and ask you to let me in.\" \n\n3. Use an action from your own culture that has the same meaning. \n\n  * **Jairus fell down at Jesus' feet.** (Luke 8:41 ULB) - Since Jairus actually did this, we would not substitute an action from our own culture.\n\n  * **Look, I stand at the door and knock.** (Revelation 3:20 ULB) -  Jesus was not standing at a real door. Rather he was speaking about wanting to have a relationship with people. So in cultures where it is polite to clear one's throat when wanting to be let into a house, you could use that.\n      * \"Look, I stand at the door and clear my throat.\"\n\n"
