"---\ntitle: Possession\nquestion: What is possession and how can I translate phrases that have it?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_possession\ndependencies: [\"figs_partsofspeech\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus: review\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/genitive-case\ncredits: \n---\n### Description\n\nIn common English, \"possession\" refers to having something, or to something that a person has. In grammar, **possession** refers to a grammatical relationship between two nouns. In English that grammatical relationship is shown with \"of,\" or an apostrophe and the letter \"s,\" or a possessive pronoun.\n\n  * the house __of__ my grandfather\n  * my grandfather__'s__ house\n  * __his__ house\n\nPossession is used in Hebrew, Greek, and English for a variety of situations. Here are a few common situations that it is used for.\n\n  * Ownership - Someone owns something.\n    * My clothes - The clothes that I own\n  * Social relationship - Someone has some kind of social relationship with another.\n    * my mother -  the woman who gave birth to me, or the woman who cared for me\n    * my teacher - the person who teaches me\n  * Contents - Something has something in it.\n    * a bag of potatoes - a bag that has potatoes in it, or a bag that is full of potatoes\n  * Part and whole: One thing is part of another.\n     * my head - the head that is part of my body\n     * the roof of a house - the roof that is part of a house\n\n#### Reasons this is a translation issue\n\n  * Translators need to understand the relationship between two ideas represented by the two nouns when one possesses the other.\n  * Some languages do not use possession for all of the situations that your source text Bible might use it for.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n**Ownership** - In the example below, the son owned the money.\n>… the younger son … wasted __his money__ with wildly extravagant living. (Luke 15:13)\n\n**Social Relationship** - In the example below, the disciples were people who learned from John.\n>Then __the disciples of John__ came to him …,  (Matthew 9:14 ULB)\n\n**Material** - In the example below, the material used for make the crowns was gold.\n>On their heads were something like __crowns of gold__ (Revelation 9:7)\n\n**Contents** - In the example below, the cup has water in it.\n>Whoever gives you __a cup of water__ to drink … will not lose his reward.  (Mark 9:41 ULB)\n\n**Part of a whole** - In the example below, the door was a part of the palace.\n>But Uriah slept at __the door of the king's palace__  (2 Samuel 11:9 ULB) \n\n**Part of a group** - In the example below, the whole group is \"us\" and \"each one\" refers to the individual members. \n>To __each one of us__ has been given a gift (Ephesians 4:7 ULB)\n\n#### Events and Possession\n\nSometimes one or both of the nouns is an abstract noun that refers to an event or action. In the examples below, the abstract nouns are in **bold** print. These are just some of the relationships that are possible between two nouns when one of them refers to an event.  \n\n**Subject** - Sometimes the word after \"of\" tells who would do the action named by the first noun. In the example below, John baptized people.\n>The __**baptism** of John__, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me.\" (Mark 11:30)\n\nIn the example below, Christ loves us.\n>Who will separate us from __the **love** of Christ__? (Romans 3:35)\n\n**Object** - Sometimes the word after \"of\" tells who or what something would happen to. In the example below, people love money.\n>For __the **love** of money__ is a root of all kinds of evil. (1 Timothy 6:10 ULB)\n\n**Instrument** - Sometimes the word after \"of\" tells how something would happen. In the example below, God would punish people by sending enemies to attack them with swords. \n> then be afraid of the sword, because wrath brings __the **punishment** of the sword__ (Job 19:29 ULB) \n\n**Representation** - In the example below, John was baptizing people who were repenting of their sins. They were being baptized to show that they were repenting. Their baptism represented their repentance.\n>As John came, he was baptizing in the wilderness and was preaching __a **baptism** of repentance__ for the forgiveness of sins. (Mark 1:4 ULB)\n\n### Strategies for learning what the relationship is between the two nouns\n\n  1. Read the surrounding verses to see if they help you to understand the relationship between the two nouns.\n  1. Read the verse in the UDB. Sometimes it shows the relationship clearly.\n  1. See what the notes say about it.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf possession would be a natural way to show a particular relationship between two nouns, consider using it. If it would be strange or hard to understand, consider these.\n\n  1. Use an adjective to show that one describes the other.\n  1. Use a verb to show how the two are related. \n  1. If one of the nouns refers to an event, translate it as a verb.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use an adjective to show that one describes the other. The adjective below is in **bold** print.\n\n  * **On their heads were something like __crowns of gold__** (Revelation 9:7)\n      * \"On their heads were __**gold** crowns__\"\n\n2. Use a verb to show how the two are related. In the example below, the added verb is in bold.\n\n  * **Whoever gives you __a cup of water__ to drink … will not lose his reward.**  (Mark 9:41 ULB)\n      * \"Whoever gives you __a cup that **has** water in it__ to drink  … will not lose his reward.\n\n  * **Wealth is worthless on __the day of wrath__** (Proverbs 11:4 ULB)\n      * Wealth is worthless on __the day when God **shows** his wrath__\"\n      * Wealth is worthless on the day when God **punishes** people because of his wrath.\n\n3. If one of the nouns refers to an event, translate it as a verb. In the example below, that verb is in bold.\n\n  * **Notice that I am not speaking to your children, who have not known or seen __the punishment of Yahweh your God__,** (Deuteronomy 11:2 ULB)\n      * \"Notice that I am not speaking to your children who have not known or seen __how Yahweh your God **punished** the people of Egypt.__\"\n\n  * **You will only observe and see the __punishment of the wicked__.** (Psalms 91:8 ULB)\n      * You will only observe and see the __how Yahweh **punishes** the wicked__. \n\n  * **you will receive the gift __of the Holy Spirit__.** (Acts 2:38 ULB)\n      * \"you will receive __the Holy Spirit, whom God will **give** to you__.\"\n\n\n"
