"---\ntitle: First, Second or Third Person\nquestion: What are first, second, and third person, and how do I translate when a third person form does not refer to the third person?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_123person\ndependencies:  [\"figs_explicitinfo\", \"figs_pronouns\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_you\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/123person\ncredits: \n---\nNormally a speaker refers to himself as \"I\" and the person he is speaking to as \"you.\" Sometimes in the Bible a speaker referred to himself or to the person he was speaking to with a phrase other than \"I\" or \"you\". \n\n### Description\n\n  * **First person** - This is how a speaker normally refers to himself.  English uses the pronouns \"I\" and \"we\". (Also: me, my, mine; us, our, ours)\n  * **Second person** - This is how a speaker normally refers to the person or people he is speaking to. English uses  the pronoun \"you.\" (Also: your, yours)\n  * **Third person** - This is how a speaker refers to someone else. English uses the pronouns \"he,\" \"she,\" \"it\" and \"they.\" (Also: him, his, her, hers, its; them, their, theirs) Noun phrases like \"the man\" or \"the woman\" are also third person.\n\nSometimes in the Bible a speaker used the third person to refer to himself or the people he was speaking to. Readers might think that the speaker was referring to someone else. They might not understand that he meant \"I\" or \"you.\"\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\nSometimes people uses the third person instead of \"I\" or \"me\" to refer to themselves.\n>But David said to Saul, \"__Your servant__ used to keep __his__ father\"s sheep.\" (1 Samuel 17:34 ULB)\n\nDavid referred to himself in the third person as \"your servant\" and \"his.\" He was calling himself Saul's servant in order to show his humility before Saul.\n\n>Then Yahweh answered Job out of a fierce storm and said,  \n>\"… Do you have an arm like __God's__? Can you thunder with a voice like __him__? (Job 40:6, 9 ULB)\n\nGod referred to himself in the third person with the words \"God's\" and \"him.\" He did this to emphasize that he is God, and he is powerful.\nSometimes people use the third person instead of \"you\" or \"your\" to refer to the person or people they are speaking to.\n>Abraham answered and said, \"Look what I have done, taking it upon myself to speak to __my Lord__, even though I am only dust and ashes! (Genesis 18:27 ULB)\n\nAbraham was speaking to the Lord, and referred to the Lord as \"My Lord\" rather than as \"you.\" He did this to show his humility before God.\n>So also my heavenly Father will do to you, if __each of you__ does not forgive __his__ brother from your heart. (Matthew 18:35 ULB)\n\nAfter saying \"each of you,\" Jesus used the third person \"his\" instead of \"your.\"\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf using the third person to mean \"I\" or \"you\" would be natural and give the right meaning in your language, consider using it. If not, here are some other options.\n  1. Use the the third person phrase along with the pronoun \"I\" or \"you.\"\n  1. Simply use the first or second person.  \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use the the third person phrase along with the pronoun \"I\" or \"you.\"\n\n  * **But David said to Saul, \"__Your servant__  used to keep __his__  father's sheep.\"**  (1 Samuel 17:34)\n      * But David said to Saul, \"__I, your servant__, used to keep __my__  father's sheep.\"\n\n2. Simply use the first person (\"I\") or second person (\"you\").\n\n  * **Then Yahweh answered Job out of a fierce storm and said, \"… Do you have an arm like __God's__? Can you thunder with a voice like __him__?**  (Job 40:6, 9 ULB)\n      * Then Yahweh answered Job out of a fierce storm and said, \"… Do you have an arm like __mine__? Can you thunder with a voice like __me__?\"\n\n  * **So also my heavenly Father will do to you, if __each of you__  does not forgive __his__  brother from your heart.**  (Matthew 18:35 ULB)\n      * So also my heavenly Father will do to you, if __each of you__  does not forgive __your__  brother from your heart.\n\n\n"
