"===== Re-telling the Meaning =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //How do I re-tell the meaning?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_process|The Translation Process]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_discover|Discover the Meaning of the Text]]//\n\n==== How to Re-tell the Meaning ====\n\nFollowing is a list of ordered steps that can be used for OL Bible translation. These steps should not be used for the translation of GL Bible translation tools, such as the ULB and UDB. The purpose of these steps is to help the translator produce an OL Bible translation that is natural, understandable, and accurate. One of the most common translator mistakes is failing to say things in a natural way, or putting things into an order that is natural in the target language. By following these steps, the translator will produce a more natural and more understandable translation.\n\n  - Read the entire chosen passage in the source language. The passage should be a portion or whole section (in the Bible from one title to the next title.) \n  - Without looking at the text in the source language, verbally tell it in the target language. Although you might forget some parts, continue telling what you remember right to the end.\n  - Again, look at the source language text. Now tell everything again in the target language. \n  - Looking again at the source language text, focus only on the parts you forgot, and then say it all in the target language by memory.\n  - After remembering the entire passage, write it exactly as it you said it by memory.\n  - Once written, look at the source language to see if you have overlooked some detail. Insert any such detail.\n  - If you do not understand something in the source text, write into the translation '[not understood]' and continue writing the rest of the passage.\n  - Now, read what you wrote. Assess whether you understand it or not. Fix the parts that should be improved.\n  - Go on to the next section. Read it in the source language. Strictly follow steps 2 through 8.\n\n\n\n\n//Credits: Used by permission, © 2013, SIL International, Sharing Our Native Culture, p. 59.//\n\n//Next we recommend you learn about://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_fandm|Form and Meaning]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_terms|Terms to Know]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_literal|Literal Translations]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_dynamic|Meaning-Based Translations]]//\n\n"
