"---\ntitle:  Generic Noun Phrases\nquestion: What are generic noun phrases and how can I translate them? \nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_genericnoun\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\"]\nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_gendernotations\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/generic-noun-phrases\ncredits: \n---\nGeneric noun phrases refer to people or things in general rather than to specific individuals or things. \n>The __one who does what is right__ is kept away from trouble and it comes upon __the wicked__ instead. (Proverbs 11:8 ULB)\n\nThe underlined phrases above do not refer to any specific people but to anyone who does what is right or anyone who is wicked. \n\nLanguages have different ways of showing that a phrase refers to something in general. Translators should use ways of doing this that are natural in their language. \n\n### Description\n\nGeneric noun phrases refers to people or things in general rather than to specific individuals or things. This happens frequently in proverbs, because proverbs tell about things that are true about people in general. \n\n>Can __a man__ walk on hot coals without scorching his feet?  \n>So is __the man who goes into his neighbor's wife__;  \n>__the one who has relations with her__ will not go unpunished. (Proverbs 6:28 ULB)\n\nThe underlined phrases above do not refer to a specific man. They refer to any man who does these things. \n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nDifferent languages have different ways of showing that noun phrases refer to something in general. Translators should refer to these general ideas in ways that are natural in their language. \n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>People curse __the man who refuses to sell them grain__ (Proverbs 11:26 ULB)\n\nThis does not refer to a particular man, but to any person who refuses to sell grain. \n>Yahweh gives favor to __a good man__, but he condemns __a man who makes evil plans__. (Proverbs 12:2 ULB)\n\nThe phrase \"a good man\" does not refer to a particular man, but to any person who is good. The phrase \"a man who makes evil plans\" does not refer to a particular man, but to any person who makes evil plans. \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf your language can use the same wording as in the ULB to refer to people or things in general rather than to specific individuals or things, consider using the same wording. Here are some strategies you might use.\n\n  1. Use the word \"the\" in the noun phrase. \n  1. Use the word \"a\" in the noun phrase. \n  1. Use the word \"any,\" as in \"any person\" or \"anyone.\" \n  1. Use the plural form, as in \"people.\" \n  1. Use any other way that is natural in your language.  \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use the word \"the\" in the noun phrase.\n  * **Yahweh gives favor to __a good man__, but he condemns __a man who makes evil plans__.** (Proverbs 12:2 ULB)\n      * \"Yahweh gives favor to __the good man__, but he condemns __the man who makes evil plans__.\" (Proverbs 12:2) \n\n1. Use the word \"a\" in the noun phrase.\n  * **People curse __the man__ who refuses to sell them grain.** (Proverbs 11:26 ULB)\n      * \"People curse __a man__ who refuses to sell them grain\" \n\n1. Use the word \"any,\" as in \"any person\" or \"anyone.\" \n  * **People curse __the man__ who refuses to sell them grain.** (Proverbs 11:26 ULB)\n      * \"People curse __any man__ who refuses to sell them grain\" \n\n1. Use the plural form, as in \"people\" (or in this sentence, \"men\"). \n  * **People curse __the man__ who refuses to sell them grain.** (Proverbs 11:26 ULB)\n      * \"People curse __men__ who refuse to sell them grain\" \n\n1. Use any other way that is natural in your language.  \n  * **People curse __the man__ who refuses to sell them grain.** (Proverbs 11:26 ULB)\n      * \"People curse __whoever__ refuses to sell them grain.\"\n"
