"---\ntitle: Litotes\nquestion: What is litotes?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_litotes\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/litotes\ncredits: \n---\nLitotes is a strong statement made by negative phrases to strengthen a positive meaning.  It is used to show that the opposite idea is not true.\n\n### Description\n\nLitotes is a strong statement made by negative phrases to strengthen a positive meaning.  It is used to show that the opposite idea is not true.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nPeople who speak some languages do not use litotes and would fail to understand that the statement is strengthened. They might think that it is weakened or even canceled.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>For you yourselves know, brothers, our coming to you was __not useless__, (1 Thessalonians 2:1 ULB)\n\nBy using litotes, Paul emphasized that his visit with them was very worthwhile. \n>All things were made through him. __Without him__ was __not one thing__ made that has been made. (John 1:3 ULB)\n\nBy using litotes John emphasized that the Son of God created absolutely everything.\n>Now when it became day, there was __no small excitement__ among the soldiers, regarding what had happened to Peter.  (Acts 12:18 ULB)\n\nBy using litotes, Luke emphasized that there was a lot of excitement or anxiety among the soldiers about what happened to Peter. (Peter had been in prison, and even though there were soldiers guarding him, he escaped when an angel let him out. So they were very concerned.)\n\n>And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,  \n>are __not the least__ among the leaders of Judah,  \n>for from you will come a ruler  \n>who will shepherd my people Israel.  (Matthew 2:6 ULB)\n\nBy using litotes, the prophet emphasized that Bethlehem would be a very important city.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the litotes would be understood correctly, consider using it.\n\n  1. If the meaning would not be clear, say in a strong way what __is__  true.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. If the meaning would not be clear, say in a strong way what __is__  true.\n\n  * **For you yourselves know, brothers, our coming to you was __not useless__,** (1 Thessalonians 2:1 ULB)\n      * \"For you yourselves know, brothers, our visit to you __did much good__.\"\n\n  * **Now when it became day, there was __no small excitement__ among the soldiers, regarding what had happened to Peter.** (Acts 12:18 ULB)\n      * \"Now when it became day, there was __great excitement__ among the soldiers, regarding what had happened to Peter.\" \n      * \"Now when it became day, the soldiers were __very concerned__ because of what had happened to Peter.\"\n\n"
