"---\ntitle: Active or Passive\nquestion: What do active and passive mean, and how do I translate passive sentences?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_activepassive\ndependencies: [\"figs_sentences\", \"figs_verbs\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended:  [\"figs_abstractnouns\", \"figs_order\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/active\ncredits: \n---\nSome languages have both active and passive sentences. In active sentences, the subject does the action. In passive sentences the subject is the one that the action is done to. Here are some examples with their subjects underlined:\n\n  * ACTIVE: __My father__ built the house in 2010. \n  * PASSIVE: __The house__  was built in 2010. \n\nTranslators whose languages do not have passive sentences will need to know how they can translate passive sentences that they find in the Bible. Other translators will need to decide when to use a passive sentence and when not to.\n\n### Description\n\nSome languages have both active and passive forms of sentences.\n\n  * In the **ACTIVE** form, the subject does the action and is always mentioned.\n  * In the **PASSIVE** form, the action is done to the subject and the one who does the action is *not always*  mentioned.\n\nIn the examples of active and passive sentences below, we have underlined the subject.\n\n* **ACTIVE**: __My father__  built the house in 2010.\n* **PASSIVE**: __The house__  was built by my father in 2010.\n* **PASSIVE**: __The house__  was built in 2010. (This does not tell who did the action.)\n\nAll languages have active forms. Some languages have passive forms, and some do not. \nThe passive form is not used for the same reasons in all of the languages that have it.\n\n#### Purposes for the passive:\n\n  * The speaker is talking about the person or thing the action was done to, not about the person who did the action.\n  * The speaker does not want to tell who did the action. \n  * The speaker does not know who did the action.\n\n#### Translation Principles Regarding the Passive\n\n  * Translators whose language does not use passive forms will need to find another way to express the idea. \n  * Translators whose language has passive forms will need to understand why the passive is used in a particular sentence in the Bible and decide whether or not to use a passive form for that purpose in his translation of the sentence.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>And their shooters shot at your soldiers from off the wall, and some of the king's servants __were killed__, and your servant Uriah the Hittite __was killed__ too. (2 Samuel 11:24 ULB) \n\nThis means that the enemies shooters shot and killed some of the king's servants, including Uriah. The point is what happened to the king's servants and Uriah, not who shot them.\n\n>In the morning when the men of the town got up, the altar of Baal __was broken down__ … (Judges 6:28 ULB) \n\nThe men of the town saw what had happened to the altar of Baal, but they did not know who broke it down. \n\n>No stonework __was seen__ there. (1 Kings 6:18 ULB) \n\nThis means that no one saw stonework there. The point is that no stonework was done there.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf you decide that it is better to translate without a passive form, here are some strategies you might consider.\n\n  1. Use the same verb in an active sentence and tell who or what did the action.\n  1. Use the same verb in an active sentence, and do not tell who or what did the action.\n  1. Use a different verb.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use the same verb in an active sentence and tell who did the action.\n  * **A loaf of bread __was given__  him every day from the street of the bakers.**  (Jeremiah 37:21 ULB)\n      * __The king's servants gave__  Jeremiah a loaf of bread every day from the street of the bakers.\n\n2. Use the same verb in an active sentence, and do not tell who did the action. Instead use a generic expression like \"they,\" or \"people,\" or \"someone.\" \n  * **It would be better for him if a millstone __were put__  around his neck and he __were thrown__  into the sea**  (Luke 17:2 ULB)\n      * It would be better for him if __they were to put__  a millstone around his neck and __throw__  him into the sea.\n      * It would be better for him if __someone were to put__  a heavy stone around his neck and __throw__  him into the sea.\n\n3. Use a different verb in an active sentence. \n  * **A loaf of bread __was given__  him every day from the street of the bakers.**  (Jeremiah 37:21 ULB)\n      * He __received__  a loaf of bread every day from the street of the bakers.\n"
