"---\ntitle: Metonymy\nquestion: What is a metonymy?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_metonymy\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended:\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/metonymy\ncredits: \n---\nMany times the Bible uses metonymy. If you do not recognize it as a metonymy you will not understand the passage or worse yet, get the wrong understanding of the passage.\n\n### Description\n\n**Metonymy** is a figure of speech in which a thing or idea is called not by its own name, but by the name of something closely associated with it. A **metonym** is a word or phrase used as a substitute for something it is associated with.\n>and __the blood__ of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (1 John 1:7 ULB)\n\nThe blood represents Christ's death. \n>He took the cup in the same way after supper, saying, \"__This cup__ is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. (Luke 22:20 ULB)\n\nThe cup represents the wine that is in the cup.\n\n#### Metonymy can be used\n\n  * as a shorter way of referring to something\n  * to make an abstract idea more meaningful by referring to it with the name of a concrete object associated with it.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\n  * If a metonym  is used, people need to be able to understand what it represents.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>The Lord God will give him __the throne__  of his father, David.  (Luke 1:32 ULB)\n\nA throne represents the authority of a king. Throne is a metonym for \"kingly authority,\" \"kingship\" or, \"reign\". This means that God would make him become the king that was to follow King David.\n>Immediately his mouth was opened (Luke 1:64 ULB)\n\nThe mouth here represents the power to speak. This means that he was able to talk again.\n>who warned you to flee from __the wrath__  that is coming?  (Luke 3:7 ULB)\n\nThe word \"wrath\" or \"anger\" is a metonym for \"punishment.\" God was extremely angry with the people, and as a result, he would punish them.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf people would easily understand the metonym, consider using it. Otherwise, here is an option.\n\n  1. Use the metonym along with the name of the thing it represents.\n  1. Use the name of the thing the metonym represents.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n2. Use the metonym along with the name of the thing it represents.\n\n  * **He took the cup in the same way after supper, saying, \"__This cup__ is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you.** (Luke 22:20 ULB)\n    * \"He took the cup in the same way after supper, saying, \"__The wine in this cup__ is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you.\" \n\n2. Use the name of the thing the metonym represents.\n\n  * **The Lord God will give him __the throne__  of his father, David.**  (Luke 1:32 ULB) \n    * \"The Lord God will give him __the kingly authority__ of his father, David.\"\n    * \"The Lord God will __make him king__ like his ancestor, King David.\"\n\n  * **who warned you to flee from __the wrath__  to come?**  (Luke 3:7 ULB) \n    * \"who warned you to flee from God's coming __punishment__?\"\n\n\n*To learn about some common metonymies, see [Biblical Imagery - Common Metonymies](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/translate_bita_part2.md).*\n"
