"---\ntitle: Textual Variants \nquestion: Why does the ULB have missing or added verses, and should I translate them?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: translate_textvariants\ndependencies:  [\"translate_source_text\", \"translate_manuscripts\"]\nstatus: Finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"translate_chapverse\", \"translate_manuscripts\", \"translate_terms\", \"translate_original\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/originalmanuscripts-textualvariant\ncredits: \n---\nThousands of years ago, people wrote the books of the Bible. Other people then copied them by hand and translated them. Sometimes the copiers added sentences by mistake or because they wanted to explain something. Modern Bibles are translations of the old copies. Some modern Bibles have some of these sentences that were added. In the ULB, these added sentences are usually written in footnotes.\n\n### Description\n\nThousands of years ago, people wrote the books of the Bible. Other people copied them by hand and translated them. They did this work very carefully, and over the years many people made thousands of copies. However people who looked at them later saw that there were small differences between them. Some copiers accidentally left out some words, and some mistook a word for another that looked like it. Occasionally they added words or even whole sentences, either by accident, or because they wanted to explain something.\n\nBible scholars have read many old copies and compared them with each other. For each place in the Bible where there was a difference, they have figured out which wordings are most likely correct. The translators of the ULB based the ULB on wordings that scholars say are most likely correct. Because people who use the ULB may have access to Bibles that are based on other copies, the ULB translators included footnotes that tell about some of the differences between them. \n\nTranslators are encouraged to translate the text in the ULB and to write about added sentences in footnotes, as is done in the ULB. However, if the local church really wants those sentences to be included in the main text, translators may put them in the text and include a footnote about them.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\nMatthew 18:10-11 ULB has a footnote about verse 11. \n><sup>10</sup>See that you do not despise any of these little ones. For I say to you that in heaven their angels always look on the face of my Father who is in heaven. <sup>11</sup><sup>[1]</sup>\n\n<sup>[1]</sup> Many authorities, some ancient, insert v. 11. *For the Son of Man came to save that which was lost.*\n\nJohn 7:53-8:11 is not in the best earliest manuscripts. It has been included in the ULB, but it is marked off with square brackets ([ ]) at the beginning and end, and there is a footnote after verse 11. \n><sup>53</sup>[Then every man went to his own house.…  <sup>11</sup>She said, \"No one, Lord.\" Jesus said, \"Neither do I condemn you. Go your way; from now on sin no more.\"]<sup>[2]</sup>\n\n<sup>[2]</sup>The best earliest manuscripts do not have John 7:35-8:11\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nWhen there is a textual variant, you may choose to follow the ULB or another version that you have access to.\n\n  1. Translate the verses that the ULB does and include the footnote that the ULB provides.\n  1. Translate the verses as another version does, and change the footnote so that it fits this situation.  \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\nThe translation strategies are applied to Mark 7:15-16 ULB, which has a footnote about verse 16.\n\n  * <sup>14</sup>**He called the crowd again and said to them, \"Listen to me, all of you, and understand. <sup>15</sup>There is nothing from outside of a person that can defile him when it enters into him. It is what comes out of the person that defiles him.\"** <sup>16[1]</sup>\n      * **<sup>[1]</sup>Many ancient authorities insert v. 16. *If any man has ears to hear, let him hear*.**\n\n1. Translate the verses that the ULB does and include the footnote that the ULB provides.\n\n  * <sup>14</sup>He called the crowd again and said to them, \"Listen to me, all of you, and understand. <sup>15</sup>There is nothing from outside of a person that can defile him when it enters into him. It is what comes out of the person that defiles him.\" <sup>16[1]</sup>\n      * <sup>[1]</sup>Many ancient authorities insert verse 16. *If any man has ears to hear, let him hear*.\n\n2. Translate the verses as another version does, and change the footnote so that it fits this situation.\n\n  * <sup>14</sup>He called the crowd again and said to them, \"Listen to me, all of you, and understand. <sup>15</sup>There is nothing from outside of a person that can defile him when it enters into him. It is what comes out of the person that defiles him. <sup>16</sup>If any man has ears to hear, let him hear.\" <sup>[1]</sup>\n      * <sup>[1]</sup>Some ancient authorities do not have verse 16.\n\n\n"
