"---\ntitle: Abstract Nouns\nquestion: What are abstract nouns and how do I deal with them in my translation?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_abstractnouns\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/abstract-nouns\ncredits: \n---\nAbstract nouns are nouns that refer to attitudes, qualities, events, situations, or even to relationships among these ideas. These are things that cannot be seen or touched in a physical sense, such as happiness, weight, injury, unity, friendship, health, and reason. This is a translation issue because some languages may express a certain idea with an abstract noun, while others would need a different way to express it. For example, \"What is its __weight__?\" could be expressed as \"How much does it __weigh__?\" or \"How __heavy__ is it?\"\n\n### Description\n\nRemember that nouns are words that refer to a person, place, thing, or idea. **Abstract Nouns** are nouns that refer to attitudes, qualities, events, situations, or even to relationships among these ideas. These are things that cannot be seen or touched in a physical sense, such as joy, peace, creation, goodness, contentment, justice, truth, freedom, vengeance, slowness, length, and weight.\n\nAbstract nouns allow us to express thoughts about ideas in fewer words than if we did not have those nouns. For example, we can say, \"I believe in the forgiveness of sin.\" But if English did not have the two abstract nouns \"forgiveness\" and \"sin,\" then we would have to make a longer sentence to express the same meaning. We would have to say, for example, \"I believe that God is willing to forgive people after they have sinned.\"\n\nAbstract nouns also allow us to refer to a situation without telling more details about it than we want to tell. For example, we can say \"I got here late because there was an accident on the highway.\" \"Accident\" is an abstract noun. If it does not matter whose accident it was, or what kind of accident it was, then it can be better if I do not have to say these things about it.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue: \n\nThe Bible that you translate from may use abstract nouns to express certain ideas. Your language might not use abstract nouns for some of those ideas; instead, it might use phrases to express those ideas. Those phrases will have other kinds of words such as adjectives, verbs, or adverbs, that express some of the meaning in the abstract noun.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>from __childhood__ you have known the sacred writings (2 Timothy 3:15 ULB) \n\nThe abstract noun \"childhood\" refers to when someone is a child.\n>But __godliness__ with __contentment__ is great __gain__. (1 Timothy 6:6 ULB) \n\nThe abstract nouns \"godliness\" and \"contentment\" refer to being godly and content.\nThe abstract noun \"gain\" refers to something that benefits or helps someone.\n>Today __salvation__ has come to this house, because he too is a son of Abraham. (Luke 19:9 ULB) \n\nThe abstract noun \"salvation\" here refers to being saved.\n>The Lord does not move slowly concerning his promises, as some consider __slowness__ to be (2 Peter 3:9 ULB) \n\nThe abstract noun \"slowness\" refers how slowly something is done.\n>He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the __purposes__ of the heart. (1 Corinthians 4:5 ULB) \n\nThe abstract noun \"purposes\" refers to the things that people want to do and the reasons they want to do them.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf an abstract noun would be natural and give the right meaning in your language, consider using it. If not, here is another option:\n\n  1. Reword the sentence with a phrase that expresses the meaning of the abstract noun. \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Reword the sentence with a phrase that expresses the meaning of the abstract noun.\n\n  * **from __childhood__  you have known the sacred writings**  (2 Timothy 3:15 ULB)\n      * \"Ever since __you were a child__  you have known the sacred writings.\"\n\n  * **But __godliness with contentment__  is great __gain__.**  (1 Timothy 6:6 ULB)\n      * \"But __being godly__ and __content__  is very __beneficial__.\"\n      * \"But we __benefit__  greatly when we __are godly__ and __content__.\"\n      * \"But we __benefit__ greatly when we __honor and obey God__ and when we are __happy with what we have__.\n\n  * **Today __salvation__  has come to this house, because he too is a son of Abraham.**  (Luke 19:9 ULB)\n      * \"Today the people in this house __have been saved__…\"\n      * \"Today God __has saved__  the people in this house…\"\n\n  * **The Lord does not move slowly concerning his promises, as some consider __slowness__  to be**  (2 Peter 3:9 ULB)\n      * \"The Lord does not move slowly concerning his promises, as some consider __moving slowly__  to be\"\n\n  * **He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the __purposes__  of the heart.**  (1 Corinthians 4:5 ULB)\n      * \"He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal __the things that people want to do and the reasons they want to do them__.\"\n\n"
