"---\ntitle: Distinguishing versus Informing or Reminding\nquestion: When a phrase is used with a noun, what is the difference between phrases that distinguish the noun from others and phrases that simply inform or remind?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_distinguish\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/123person\ncredits: \n---\nIn some languages, phrases can be used with a noun for two different things. They can either distinguish one item from another or they can give more information or a reminder about an item. Other languages use phrases with a noun only for distinguishing. When people who speak these languages hear a phrase with a noun, they assume that its function is to distinguish one item from another.\n\n### Description\n\nIn some languages, phrases can be used with a noun for two different things. They can either distinguish one item from other possible items, or they can give more information about an item. That information could be new to the reader, or a reminder about something the reader might already know or assume.\n\n  * \"Mary gave some of the food to __her sister who was very thankful__. \n      * If her sister was usually thankful, the phrase \"who was thankful\" could distinguish this sister of Mary's from another sister who was not usually thankful.  \n\n  * \"Mary gave some of the food to her __sister, who was very thankful__.\" \n      * This same phrase can be used to inform us about how Mary's sister responded when Mary gave her the food. In this case it does not distinguish one sister from another. \n\n#### Reasons this is a translation issue\n\n  * Some languages use phrases with a noun only for distinguishing on item from another. When translating a phrase that is used for giving more information, people who speak these languages will need to separate the phrase from the noun. Otherwise people who read it or hear it will think that  the phrase is meant to distinguish one item from other possible items.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n**Examples of words and phrases that are used to distinguish one item from other possible items**: These usually do not cause a problem in translation.\n\n>… The curtain is to separate __the holy place__ from __the most holy place__. (Exodus 26:33 ULB) \n\nThe words \"holy\" and \"most holy\" distinguish two different places from each other and from any other place.\n\n>A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to __the woman who bore him__. (Proverbs 17:25 ULB)\n\nThe phrase \"who bore him\" distinguishes which woman the son is bitterness to. He is not bitterness to all women, but to his mother.\n\n**Examples of words and phrases that are used to give added information or a reminder about an item**: These are a translation issue for languages that do not use these. (See: [Phrases that Inform or Remind](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_informremind.md)) \n\n>for __your righteous judgments__ are good.  (Psalm 119:39 ULB)\n\nThe word \"righteous\" simply reminds us that God's judgments are righteous. It does not distinguish his righteous judgement from his unrighteous judgement, because all of his judgments are righteous.\n\n>Can __Sarah, who is ninety years old,__ bear a son? - (Genesis 17:17-18 ULB) \n\nThe phrase \"who is ninety years old\" is the reason that Abraham did not think that Sarah could bear a son. He was not distinguishing one woman named Sarah from another woman named Sarah, and he was not telling anyone something new about her age. He simply did not think that a  woman who was that old could bear a child.  \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf your language uses words or phrases with a noun only to distinguish one item from another, \nsee [Phrases that Inform or Remind](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_informremind.md) for translation strategies. \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\nSee [Phrases that Inform or Remind](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/figs_informremind.md) for how to translate phrases that inform or remind.\n\n\n\n\n"
