"===== Notes that have Alternate Meanings =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //Why do some translationNotes have numbered translation suggestions?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_help|Help with Translating]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:resources_types|Using the translationNotes]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:resources_alter|Notes with Alternate Translations (AT)]]//\n\n=== Description ====\n\nAlternate meanings refer to when there are different understandings of what a word or phrase means. \n\nThe note will have the ULB text followed by an explanation starting with the words \"Possible meanings are.\" The meanings are numbered, and the first one is most likely correct. If a meaning is given in a way that it can be used as a translation, it will have quote marks around it. \n\nThe translator needs to decide which meaning to translate. Translators may choose the first meaning, or they may choose one of the other meanings if the people in their community use and respect another Bible version that has one of those other meanings.\n\n==== Translation Notes Examples ====\n\n> You are like a young lion among the nations, like a monster in the seas (Ezekiel 32:2 ULB)\n\n  * **like a monster in the seas** - Possible meanings are that 1) he was powerful or 2) he was not doing anything important.\nThis note has the ULB text followed by two meanings. The note starts with 'Possible meanings are,' and the meanings are numbered. The first meaning is most likely correct.\n\n> But Simon Peter, when he saw it, fell down at Jesus' knees (Luke 5:8 ULB)\n\n  * **fell down at Jesus' knees** - Possible meanings are 1) \"bowed down at Jesus' feet\" or 2) \"lay down on the ground at Jesus' feet\" or 3) \"knelt down before Jesus.\" Peter did not fall accidentally. He did this as a sign of  humility and respect for Jesus. \nThis note explains what 'fell down at Jesus' knees\" might mean. The first meaning is most likely correct, but the other meanings are also possible. If your language does not have a general word that could refer to any of these actions, you may need to use a word that shows specifically how Simon Peter did this.\n\n\n\n\n"
