"===== Notes that Identify Indirect and Direct Quotes =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //How will translationNotes help me translate indirect and direct quotes?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_help|Help with Translating]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:resources_types|Using the translationNotes]]//\n\n==== Description ====\n\nThere are two kinds of quotations: direct quotation and indirect quotation. When translating a quotation, translators need to decide whether to translate it as a direct quotation or an indirect quotation.  (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])\n\nWhen there is a direct or indirect quote in the ULB, the notes may have an option for translating it as the other kind of quote. The translation suggestion may start with \"It can be translated as a direct quote:\" or \"It can be translated as an indirect quote:\" and it will be followed by that kind of quote. This may be followed by a link to the information page called \"Direct and Indirect Quotations.\"\n\nThere is a likely to be a note about direct and indirect quotes when a quote has another quote inside of it, because these can be confusing. In some languages it may be more natural to translate one of these quotes with a direct quote and the other quote with an indirect quote. The note will end with a link to the information page called \"[[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]].\" \n\n==== Translation Notes Examples ====\n\n> He instructed him to tell no one (Luke 5:14 ULB)\n\n  * **to tell no one**  - This can be translated as a direct quote: \"Do not tell anyone.\" The implied information is \"that you have been healed.\" (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])\nHere the translation suggestion is to change the indirect quote to a direct quote.  \n\n> At the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, \"First pull out the weeds and tie them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn.\"'\" (Matthew 13:30 ULB)\n\n  * **I will say to the reapers, \"First pull out the weeds and tie them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn\"** - You can translate this as an indirect quote: \"I will tell the reapers to first gather up the weeds and tie them in bundles to burn them, then gather the wheat into my barn.\" (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])\nHere the translation suggestion is to change the direct quote to an indirect quote. \n\nThe translator needs to decide whether it is better in his language to use a direct quote or an indirect quote. \n\n\n\n\n"
