"---\ntitle: Go and Come \nquestion: What do I do if the word \"go\" or \"come\" is confusing in a certain sentence? \nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_go\ndependencies:  \nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/go\ncredits: \n---\nDifferent languages have different ways of determining whether to use the words \"go\" or \"come.\" For example when saying that they are approaching a person who has called them, English speakers say \"I'm coming\", while Spanish speakers say \"I'm going.\" You will need to translate the words \"go\" and \"come\" (and also \"take\" and \"bring\") in a way that your readers will understand which direction people are moving in.\n\n### Description\n\nDifferent languages have different ways of determining whether to use the words \"go\" or \"come\" and whether to use the words \"take\" or \"bring.\"  For example when saying that they are approaching a person who has called them, English speakers say \"I'm coming\", while Spanish speakers say \"I'm going.\" \n\n**Reason this is a translation issue:** If the words \"go\" and \"come\" or \"take\" and \"bring\" are not translated in the way that is natural in your language, your readers may be confused about which direction people are moving in.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>Yahweh said to Noah, \"__Come__, you and all your household, into the ark (Genesis 7:1 ULB)\n\nIn some languages, this would lead people to think that Yahweh was in the ark.\n>But you will be free from my oath if you __come__ to my relatives and they will not give her to you. Then you will be free from my oath. (Genesis 24:41 ULB)\n\nAbraham was speaking to his servant. Abraham's relatives lived far away and he wanted his servant to go to them. \n>When you have __come__ to the land that Yahweh your God gives you, and when you take possession of it and begin to live in it (Deuteronomy 17:14 ULB) \n\nMoses and the people were in the wilderness. They had not yet gone into the land that God was giving them.\n>Behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was one of the leaders of the synagogue. Jairus fell down at Jesus' feet and implored him to __come__ to his house, (Luke 8:41 ULB)  \n\nThe man was not at his house when he spoke to Jesus. He wanted Jesus to go with him to his house.  \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the word used in the ULB would be natural and give the right meaning in your language, consider using it. If not, here is another option.  \n\n  1. Use the word \"go\", \"come\", \"take\" or \"bring\" that would be natural in your language.\n  1. Use another word that expresses the right meaning.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use the words that would be natural in your language.  \n\n  * **But you will be free from my oath if you __come__ to my relatives and they will not give her to you.** (Genesis 24:41 ULB)\n      * But you will be free from my oath if you __go__ to my relatives and they will not give her to you. \n\n2. Use another word that expresses the right meaning.\n\n  * **When you have __come__ to the land that Yahweh your God gives you, and when you take possession of it and begin to live in it** (Deuteronomy 17:14 ULB)\n      * \"When you have __arrived__ in the land that Yahweh your God gives you possess it and live in it,\"\n\n  * **Yahweh said to Noah, \"__Come__, you and all your household, into the ark** (Genesis 7:1 ULB)\n      * \"Yahweh said to Noah, \"__Enter__, you and all your household, into the ark\"\n\n\n"
