"---\ntitle: Personification\nquestion: What is personification?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_personification\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_apostrophe\", \"bita_part1\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/personification\ncredits: \n---\n### Description\n\nPersonification is a figure of speech in which someone speaks of something as if it could do things that animals or people can do. People often do this because it makes it easier to talk about things that we cannot see:\n\nSuch as wisdom:\n>Does not Wisdom call out?  (Proverbs 8:1 ULB)\n\nOr sin:\n>sin crouches at the door  (Genesis 4:7 ULB)\n\nPeople also do this because it is sometimes easier to talk about relationships between people and other people than about relationships between people and non-human things, such as wealth.\n\n>You cannot serve God and wealth.  (Matthew 6:24 ULB)\n\nSome languages do not use personification, and some languages use it only in certain situations.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\n  * Some languages do not use personification. \n  * Some languages use personification only in certain situations.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>You cannot serve God and wealth.  (Matthew 6:24 ULB)\n\nJesus speaks of wealth as if it were a master whom people might serve. Loving money and basing one's decisions on it is like serving it as a slave would serve his master.\n\n>Does not Wisdom call out? Does not Understanding raise her voice?  (Proverbs 8: ULB1)\n\nThe author speaks of wisdom and understanding as if they are a woman who calls out to teach people. They are not something hidden, but something obvious that people should pay attention to.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the personification would not be understood clearly, here are some strategies for dealing with it.\n\n  1. Add words or phrases to make it clear.\n  1. Use the words \"like\" or \"as\" to show that the sentences is not to be understood literally. \n  1. Find a way to translate it without the personification. \n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Add words or phrases to make it clear. \n\n  * **sin crouches at the door** (Genesis 4:7 ULB) - God speaks of sin as a wild animal that is waiting for the chance to attack.  This shows how dangerous sin is. An additional phrase can be added to make this danger clear.\n      * \"sin is at your door, waiting to attack you\"\n\n2.  Use the words \"like\" or \"as\" to show that the sentences is not to be understood literally.\n\n  * **sin crouches at the door** (Genesis 4:7 ULB) - This can be translated with the word \"as.\"\n      * \"sin is about to destroy you, just __as__ a wild animal could harm a person.\"\n\n3. Find a way to translate it without the personification. \n\n  * **even the winds and the sea obey him**  (Matthew 8:27 ULB) - The men speak of the wind and the sea as if they are able to hear and obey Jesus as people can. This could also be translated without the idea of obedience by speaking of Jesus controlling them. \n      * \"He even controls the winds and the sea.\"\n\n\n\n**Note**: We have broadened our definition of \"personification\" to include \"zoomorphism\" (speaking of other things as if they had animal characteristics) and \"anthropomorphism\" (speaking of other things as if they had human characteristics).\n"
