"---\ntitle: Direct and Indirect Quotations\nquestion: What are direct and indirect quotations?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_quotations\ndependencies:  [\"figs_pronouns\", \"figs_verbs\", \"writing_quotations\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_quotesinquotes\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/quotation\ncredits: \n---\nThere are two kinds of quotations: direct quotation and indirect quotation. In some languages, reported speech can be expressed by direct or indirect quotations.\n\n* Direct Quotation: John said, \"I do not know at what time I will arrive.\"\n* Indirect Quotation: John said that he did not know what time he would arrive.\nWhen translating a quotation, translators need to decide whether to translate it as a direct quotation or an indirect quotation.\n\nYou may also want to watch the video at http://ufw.io/figs_quotations.\n\n### Description\n\nA **direct quotation** occurs when someone reports what another person said from the viewpoint of that original speaker. People usually expect that this kind of quotation will represent the original speaker's exact words. In the example below, John would have said \"I\" when referring to himself, so the narrator, who is telling about John John saying this, uses the word in the quotation \"I\" to refer to John. \n\n  * John said, \"__I__ do not know at what time __I__ will arrive.\" \n\nAn **indirect quotation** occurs when a speaker reports what someone else said, but in this case, the speaker is reporting it from his own point of view instead of from the original person's point of view. This kind of quotation usually features changes in pronouns, and it often features changes in time, in word choices, and in length.   In the example below, the narrator refers to John as \"he\" in the quotation and uses the word \"would,\" which is the past tense of \"will.\"\n\n  * John said that __he__  did not know what time __he__  would arrive.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\nThe verses in the examples below have both direct and indirect quotations. In the explanation below the verse, we have underlined the quotations. \n>He instructed him to tell no one, but told him, \"Go on your way, and show yourself to the priest and offer a sacrifice for your cleansing, according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.\" (Luke 5:14 ULB)\n\n  * Indirect quote: He instructed him __to tell no one__,\n  * Direct quote: but told him, \"__Go on your way, and show yourself to the priest…__\"\n\n>Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, Jesus answered them and said, \"The kingdom of God is not something that can be observed. Neither will they say, 'Look here!' or, 'Look there!' because the kingdom of God is among you.\"  (Luke 17:20-21 ULB)\n\n  * Indirect quote: Being asked by the Pharisees __when the kingdom of God would come,__ \n  * Direct quote: Jesus answered them and said, \"__The kingdom of God is not something that can be observed. Neither will they say, 'Look here!' or, 'Look there!' because the kingdom of God is among you.__\" \n  * Direct quotes:  Neither will they say, '__Look here!__' or, '__Look there!__'\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the kind of quote used in the source text would work well in your language, consider using it. \n\n  1. If a direct quote would not work well in your language, change it to an indirect quote.\n  1. If an indirect quote would not work well in  your language, change it to a direct quote.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. If a direct quote would not work well in your language, change it to an indirect quote.\n\n  * **He instructed him to tell no one, but told him, \"__Go on your way, and show yourself to the priest and offer a sacrifice for your cleansing, according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.__\"** (Luke 5:14 ULB)\n      * He instructed him to tell no one, but __to go on his way, and show himself to the priest and offer a sacrifice for his cleansing, according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them__.\"\n\n1. If an indirect quote would not work well in  your language, change it to a direct quote.\n\n  * **He instructed him __to tell no one__, but told him, \"Go on your way, and show yourself to the priest and offer a sacrifice for your cleansing, according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.\"** (Luke 5:14 ULB)\n      * He told him \"__Tell no one__. But go on your way, and show yourself to the priest and offer a sacrifice for your cleansing, according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.\"\n\n"
