"---\ntitle: Biblical Money\nquestion: How can I translate the values of money in the Bible?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: translate_bmoney\ndependencies: \nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"translate_transliterate\", \"translate_unknown\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/biblicaldistance\ncredits: \n---\n### Description:\n\nIn early Old Testament times, people weighed their metals such as silver and gold in order to buy things. Later people started to make coins. The daric is one such coin.  In New Testament times, people used silver and copper coins.\n\nThe two tables below show some of the most well-known units of money found in the Old Testament (OT) and New Testament (NT). The table for Old Testament units shows what kind of metal was used and how much it weighed. The table for New Testament units shows what kind of metal was used and how much it was worth in terms of a day's wage.\n\n| Unit in OT | Metal  | Weight  |\n| -------- | -------- | -------- |\n| daric     | gold coin  | 8.4 grams      |\n| shekel | various metals |  11 grams |\n| talent | various metals |  33 kilograms| \n \n\n| Unit in NT |  Metal |  Day's Wage  |\n| -------- | -------- | -------- |\n| denarius/denarii | silver coin |  1 day |\n| drachma | silver coin |  1 day |\n| mite | copper coin|  1/64 day |\n| shekel | silver coin |  4 days |\n| talent | silver |  6,000 days |\n\n#### Translation Principle\n\nDo not use modern money values since these change from year to year. Using them will cause the Bible translation to become outdated and inaccurate.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nThe value of most money in the Old Testament was based on its weight. So when translating these weights in the Old Testament, see [Biblical Weight](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol2/src/master/content/translate_bweight.md). \nThe strategies below are for translating the value of money in the New Testament\n\n  1. Use the Bible term and spell it in a way that is similar to the way it sounds. (See: [Copy or Borrow Words](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol1/src/master/content/translate_transliterate.md))\n  1. Describe the value of the money in terms of what kind of metal it was made of and how many coins were used.\n  1. Describe the value of the money in terms of what people in Bible times could earn in one day of work.\n  1. Use the Bible term and give the equivalent amount in the text or a note.\n  1. Use the Bible term and explain it in a note.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nThe translations strategies are all applied to Luke 7:41 below.\n\n  * **The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other owed fifty denarii.** (Luke 7:41 ULB)\n\n1. Use the Bible term and spell it in a way that is similar to the way it sounds. (See: [Copy or Borrow Words](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol1/src/master/content/translate_transliterate.md))\n\n  *  \"The one owed __five hundred denali__, and the other owed __fifty denali__.\" (Luke 7:41 ULB)\n\n2. Describe the value of the money in terms of what kind of metal it was made of and how many pieces or coins were used.\n\n  *  \"The one owed __five hundred silver coins__, and the other owed __fifty silver coins__.\" (Luke 7:41 ULB)\n\n3. Describe the value of the money in terms of what people in Bible times could earn in one day of work.\n\n  *  \"The one owed __five hundred days' wages__, and the other owed __fifty days' wages__.\" \n\n4. Use the Bible term and give the equivalent amount in the text or a footnote.\n\n  *  \"The one owed __five hundred denarii__<sup>1</sup>, and the other owed __fifty denarii__.<sup>2</sup>\" (Luke 7:41 ULB) The footnotes would look like:\n      *  <sup>[1]</sup> five hundred days's wages\n      *  <sup>[2]</sup> fifty day's wages\n\n5. Use the Bible term and explain it in a footnote.\n\n  * \"The one owed __five hundred denarii__<sup>1</sup>, and the other owed __fifty denarii__.\" (Luke 7:41 ULB)\n      * <sup>[1]</sup> A denarius was the amount of silver that people could earn in one day of work.\n\n"
