"---\ntitle: Reflexive Pronouns\nquestion: What are reflexive pronouns?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_rpronouns\ndependencies:  [\"figs_pronouns\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/reflexpronoun\ncredits: \n---\nAll languages have ways of showing that the same person fills two different roles in a sentence. This page will help you understand how English shows this and will help you to see how your language handles this. \n\n### Description\n\n**Reflexive pronouns** are pronouns that refer to someone or something that has already been mentioned in a sentence. In English the reflexive pronouns are: myself, yourself, himself, herself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, and themselves.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n  * Languages have different ways of referring to someone or something more than once in a sentence.\n  * The reflexive pronouns in English have other functions.\n\n#### Uses of Reflexive Pronouns\n\n  * to show that the same person or things fills two different roles in a sentence\n  * to emphasize a person or thing in the sentence\n  * to show that someone did something alone \n  * to show that someone or something was alone\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\nReflexive pronouns used to that show that the same person or things fills two different roles in a sentence\n<blockquote>If __I__ should testify about __myself__ alone, my testimony would not be true. (John 5:31 ULB) </blockquote>\n\n>Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and __many__ went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover in order to purify __themselves__. (John 11:55 ULB) \n\nReflexive pronouns used to emphasize a person or thing in the sentence\n<blockquote>__Jesus himself__ was not baptizing, but his disciples were (John 4:2 ULB)  </blockquote>\n\n> So they left the crowd, taking __Jesus__ with them, since he was already in the boat. Other boats were also with him. And a violent windstorm arose and the waves were breaking into the boat so that the boat was already full. But __Jesus himself__ was in the stern, asleep on a cushion. (Mark 4:36-38 ULB)\n\nReflexive pronouns used to show that someone did something alone \n>When Jesus realized that they were about to come and seize him by force to make him king, he withdrew again up the mountain __by himself__. (John 6:15 ULB) \n\nReflexive pronouns used to show that someone or something was alone\n>He saw the linen cloths lying there and the cloth that had been on his head. __It__ was not lying with the linen cloths but was rolled up in its place by __itself__. (John 20:6-7 ULB)  \n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf a reflexive pronoun would have the same function in your language, consider using it. If not, here are some other strategies.\n\n1. In some languages people put something on the verb to show that the object of the verb is the same as the subject. \n1. In some languages people emphasize a certain person or thing by referring to it in a special place in the sentence. \n1. In some languages people emphasize a certain person or thing by adding something to that word or putting another word with it.\n1. In some languages people show that someone did something alone by using a word like \"alone.\" \n1. In some languages people show that something was alone by using a phrase that tells about where it was.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. In some languages people put something on the verb to show that the object of the verb is the same as the subject. \n\n  * **If I should testify about __myself__ alone, my testimony would not be true.** (John 5:31)\n      * \"If I should __self-testify__ alone, my testimony would not be true.\" \n\n  * **Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover in order to __purify themselves__.** (John 11:55) \n      * \"Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover in order to __self-purify__.\"\n\n2. In some languages people emphasize a certain person or thing by referring to it in a special place in the sentence. \n\n  * **__He himself__ took our sickness and bore our diseases.** (Matthew 8:17 ULB)\n      * \"__It was he who__  took our sickness and bore our diseases.\"\n\n  * **__Jesus himself__ was not baptizing, but his disciples were.** (John 4:2)\n      * \"__It was not Jesus who__ was baptizing, but his disciples were.\"\n\n3. In some languages people emphasize a certain person or thing by adding something to that word or putting another word with it. English adds the reflexive pronoun.\n\n  * **Now Jesus said this to test Philip, for he __himself__ knew what he was going to do.** (John 6:6)\n\n4. In some languages people show that someone did something alone by using a word like \"alone.\"\n\n  * **When Jesus realized that they were about to come and seize him by force to make him king, he withdrew again up the mountain __by himself__.** (John 6:15)\n      * \"When Jesus realized that they were about to come and seize him by force to make him king, he withdrew again __alone__ up the mountain.\" \n\n5. In some languages people show that something was alone by using a phrase that tells about where it was.\n\n  * **He saw the linen cloths lying there and the cloth that had been on his head. It was not lying with the linen cloths but was rolled up in its place __by itself__.** (John 20:6-7 ULB)  \n      * \"He saw the linen cloths lying there and the cloth that had been on his head. It was not lying with the linen cloths but was rolled up and lying __in a different place__.\"\n\n\n"
