"===== Irony =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What is irony and how can I translate it?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_intro|Figures of Speech]]//\n\n==== Description ====\n\nIrony is a figure of speech in which a person pretends to say what he really believes, when in fact he is saying what someone else believes, and he does it in a way that shows that other belief is wrong. People do this to emphasize how different something is from what it should be, or how someone else's belief is foolish. It is often humorous.\n>Jesus answered them, \"People who are in good health do not need a physician, only people who are sick need one. I did not come to call righteous people to repentance, but to call sinners to repentance.\" ([[en:bible:notes:luk:05:29|Luke 5:31-32]] ULB)\nWhen Jesus spoke of \"righteous people,\" he was not referring to people who were truly righteous. He was speaking to people who wrongly believed that they were righteous and who were criticizing him for welcoming sinners. Jesus implied that they were wrong to think that they were better than others and did not need to repent.\n\n=== Reason this is a translation issue === \n\n  * If someone does not realize that a speaker is using irony, he will think that the speaker actually believes what he is saying. He will not realize that the speaker is ridiculing the idea. \n\n==== Examples from the Bible ====\n\n>After blindfolding him, they asked him, saying, \"__Prophesy! Who is the one who hit you__?\" ([[en:bible:notes:luk:22:63|Luke 22:64 ]]ULB)\nThe fact that the soldiers were beating Jesus shows us that they did not believe that he was a prophet. They knew that other people thought that Jesus was a prophet, and they may have also thought that Jesus himself claimed to be a prophet. When they told him to prophesy, they were using irony. They were mocking him and implying that if he really was a prophet, then he should be able to tell who hit him without seeing them. \n>\"Present your case,\" says Yahweh; \"present your best arguments for your idols,\" says the King of Jacob. \"Let them bring us their own arguments; have them come forward and declare to us what will happen, so we may know these things well. Have them tell us of earlier predictive declarations, so we can reflect on them and know how they were fulfilled.\"  ([[en:bible:notes:isa:44:21|Isaiah 41:21-22]] ULB)\nPeople worshiped idols as if their idols had any knowledge or power, and Yahweh was angry at them for doing that. So he used irony and challenged their idols to tell what would happen in the future. He knew that the idols could not even speak, but he did this to mock the idols and rebuke the people for worshiping them.\n>Can you lead light and darkness to their places of work?\n>Can you find the way back to their houses for them?\n>__Undoubtedly you know, for you were born then;__\n>\"__the number of your days is so large!__\" ([[en:bible:notes:job:38:22|Job 38:20, 21]] ULB)\nJob thought that he was wise. Yahweh used irony to show Job that he was not so wise. The two underlined phrase above emphasize that Job could not possibly answer God's questions about the creation of light because Job was not born until many many years later.\n\n==== Translation Strategies ====\n\nIf the irony would be understood correctly in your language, translate it as it is stated. If not, here is another strategy.\n  - Translate it in a way that shows that the speaker is saying what someone else believes.  \n  - Translate the actual, intended meaning of the statement of irony. The actual meaning of the irony is __not__ found in the literal words of the speaker, but instead the true meaning is found in the opposite of the literal meaning of the speaker's words.     \n\n==== Examples of Translation Strategies Applied ====\n\n1. Translate it in a way that shows that the speaker is saying what someone else believes.  \n\n  * **After blindfolding him, they asked him, saying, \"__Prophesy! Who is the one who hit you__?\"** ([[en:bible:notes:luk:22:63|Luke 22:64]] ULB)\n    * \"After blindfolding him, they asked him, saying, \"__You call yourself a prophet. Then prophesy! Who hit you?__\"\n    * \"After blindfolding him, they said to him, \"__Prophesy! If you were really a prophet, you would be able to tell us who hit you__.\"\n\n  * **I did not come to call __righteous people__ to repentance, but to call sinners to repentance.** ([[en:bible:notes:luk:05:29|Luke 5:32]] ULB)\n    * \"I did not come to call __people who think that they are righteous__ to repentance, but to call sinners to repentance.\"\n\n2. Translate the actual, intended meaning of the statement of irony.\n  * **After blindfolding him, they asked him, saying, \"__Prophesy! Who is the one who hit you__?\"** ([[en:bible:notes:luk:22:63|Luke 22:64]] ULB)\n    * \"After blindfolding him, they said to him, \"__You are not a prophet because you cannot even tell us who struck you!__\" \"\n\n  * **\"Present your case,\" says Yahweh; \"present your best arguments for your idols,\" says the King of Jacob. \"Let them bring us their own arguments; have them come forward and declare to us what will happen, so we may know these things well. Have them tell us of earlier predictive declarations, so we can reflect on them and know how they were fulfilled.\"**  ([[en:bible:notes:isa:41:21|Isaiah 41:21-22]] ULB)\n    * \" 'Present your case,' says Yahweh; 'present your best arguments for your idols,' says the King of Jacob. Your idols __cannot bring us their own arguments or even come forward to  declare to us what will happen__. We cannot hear them because __they cannot speak__ to tell us their earlier predictive declarations, so we cannot reflect on them and know how they were fulfilled.\"\n\n>**Can you lead light and darkness to their places of work?**\n>**Can you find the way back to their houses for them?**\n>**__Undoubtedly you know, for you were born then;__**\n>**__the number of your days is so large!__\"** ([[en:bible:notes:job:38:19|Job 38:20, 21]] ULB)\n\n  * \"Can you lead light and darkness to their places of work? Can you find the way back to their houses for them? __You act like you know how light and darkness were created, as if you were there; as if you are as old as creation__!\" \n"
