"---\ntitle: Biblical Imagery - Plants\nquestion: What are some examples of plants that are used as images in the Bible?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: bita_plants\ndependencies:  [\"translate_bita_part1\", \"figs_metaphor\", \"figs_metonymy\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/biblicalimageryta_plants\ncredits: \n---\n\nSome images from the Bible involving plants are listed below in alphabetical order. The word in all capital letters represents an idea. The word does not necessarily appear in every verse that has the image, but the idea that the word represents does.\n\n\n#### A BRANCH represents a person's descendant\n\nIn the examples below, Isaiah wrote about one of Jesse's descendants and Jeremiah wrote about one of David's descendants.\n>A shoot will sprout from the root of Jesse, and a branch out of his root will bear fruit.  \n>The Spirit of Yahweh will rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding. (Isaiah 11:1 ULB)\n\n\n>See, days are coming—this is Yahweh's declaration—when I will raise up for David a righteous branch.  \n>He will reign as king; he will bring prosperity and carry out justice and righteousness in the land.  (Jeremiah 23:5 ULB)\n\n\nIn Job when it says \"his branch will be cut off,\" it means that he will not have any descendants.\n\n>His roots will be dried up beneath;  \n>above will his branch be cut off.  \n>His memory will perish from the earth;  \n>he will have no name in the street. (Job 18:17 ULB)\n\n\n#### A PLANT represents a person \n\n>God will likewise destroy you forever; he will…root you out of the land of the living. (Psalm 52:5 ULB)\n\n\n#### A PLANT represents an emotion or attitude\n\nJust as planting one kind of seeds results in that kind of plant growing, behaving in one way results in that kind of consequence.\n\nThe emotion or attitude in the verses is underlined below. \n>Sow __righteousness__ for yourselves, and reap the fruit of __covenant faithfulness__. (Hosea 10:12 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>Based on what I have observed, those who plow __iniquity__ and sow __trouble__, reap the same. (Job 4:8 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>For the people sow the wind and reap the whirlwind. (Hosea 8:7 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>You have turned…the fruit of __righteousness__ into bitterness. (Amos 6:12 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>What fruit then did you have at that time of the things of which you are now ashamed?  (Romans 6:21 ULB)\n\n\n#### A TREE represents a person\n\n>He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water that produces its fruit in its season, whose leaves do not wither; whatever he does will prosper. (Psalm 1:3 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>I have seen the wicked and terrifying person spread out like a green tree in its native soil. (Psalm 37:35 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>I am like a green olive tree in God's house. (Psalm 52:8 ULB)\n"
