"===== Notes with Alternate Translations (AT) =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What translating decision should I make when I see \"AT:\" in the notes?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_help|Help with Translating]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:resources_types|Using the translationNotes]]//\n\n==== Description ====\n\nAn alternate translation is a suggested change to the form or content of the ULB because the target language has a different form. The alternate translation should only be used when the ULB form or content would give a wrong meaning, or would be unclear or unnatural. \n\nThe alternate translation suggestion may involve, for example, stating implicit information clearly, changing passive voice to active, or rewording rhetorical questions as statements. \nThe notes often explain why there is an alternate translation and have a link to a page that explains the topic. \n\n==== Translation Notes Examples ====\n\nThe \"AT:\" indicates that this is an alternate translation. Some examples are:\n\n**Making Implicit Information Clear**\n\n>  it is the law of the Medes and Persians, that no decree or statute that the king issues can be changed. (Daniel 6:15 ULB)\n\n  * **no decree...can be changed** - An additional sentence may be added here to aid in understanding. AT: \"no decree...can be changed. So they must throw Daniel into the pit of lions.\" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])\n\nThe additional sentence shows what the speaker wanted the king to understand from his reminder that the king's decrees and statues cannot be changed. Translators may need to state some things clearly in the translation that the original speaker or writer left unstated or implicit. \n\n**Passive to Active**\n\n> to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven. (Luke 12:10 ULB)\n\n  * **it will not be forgiven** - This can be expressed with an active verb. AT: God will not forgive him. This can also be expressed in a positive way using a verb that means the opposite of \"forgive.\" AT: \"God will consider him guilty forever\" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])\n\nTranslators whose languages do not have passive sentences will need to know how they can translate passive sentences that they find in the Bible.\n\n**Rhetorical Question**\n\n> Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? (Acts 9:4 ULB)\n\n    * **why are you persecuting me?** - The Lord used this question to rebuke Saul. In some languages a statement would be more clear. AT: \"You are persecuting me!\"  (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_rquestion]])\n\nThe translation suggestion provides an alternate (AT) way to translate the rhetorical question if your language does not use rhetorical questions to rebuke.\n\n\n\n\n"
