"---\ntitle: Pronouns - When to Use Them\nquestion: How do I decide whether or not to use a pronoun?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: writing_pronouns\ndependencies:  [\"figs_pronouns\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/writingstyles_pronoun\ncredits: \n---\n\nDifferent languages have different rules about when to use pronouns. When you follow your language's rules for using pronouns, people will easily understand who and what your translation is about.\\\\  \n\n### Description\n\nWhen we talk or write, we use pronouns to refer to people or things without always having to repeat the noun or name. Usually the first time we refer to someone in a story, we use a descriptive phrase or a name. The next time we might refer to that person with a simple noun or by name. After that we might refer to him simply with a pronoun, as long as we think that our listeners will be able to understand easily who the pronoun refers to.\n\n> Now there was __a Pharisee whose name was Nicodemus, a member of the Jewish Council__. __This man__ came to Jesus … Jesus replied to __him__ (John 3:1-3 ULB)\n\n\nIn John 3, Nicodemus is first referred to with noun phrases and his name. Then he is referred to with the noun phrase \"this man.\" Then he is referred to with the pronoun \"him.\"\n\nEach language has its rules and exceptions to this usual way of referring to people and things. \n\n* In some languages the first time something is referred to in a paragraph or chapter, it is referred to with a noun rather than a pronoun.\n* The **main character** is who a story is about. In some languages, after a main character is introduced in a story, he is usually referred to with a pronoun. Some languages have special pronouns that refer only to the main character.\n* In some languages, marking on the verb helps people know who the subject is. (See: [Verbs](figs_verbs.md).) In some of these languages, listeners rely on this marking to help them understand who the subject is, and speakers use a pronoun, noun phrase, or name only when they want to emphasize or clarify who the subject is. \n\n#### Reasons this is a translation issue  \n\n  * If translators use a pronoun at the wrong time, readers might not know who the pronoun refers to. \n  * If translators frequently refer to a main character by name, listeners might not realize that the person is a main character.\n  * If translators use pronouns, nouns, or names at the wrong time, people might think that there is some special emphasis on the thing it refers to.\n\n### Examples from the Bible \n\nThe example below occurs at the beginning of a chapter. It some languages it might not be clear who the pronouns refer to.\n> Again Jesus walked into the synagogue, and a man with a withered hand was there. __They__ watched __him__ to see if __he__ would heal __him__ on the Sabbath. (Mark 3:1-2 ULB)\n\n\nIn the example below, two men are named in the first sentence. It might not be clear who \"he\" in the second sentence refers to.\n> Now after some days, __King Agrippa__ and Bernice arrived at Caesarea to pay an official visit to __Festus__. After __he__ had been there for many days, Festus presented Paul's case to the king;  (Acts 25:13-14 ULB)\n\n\nJesus is the main character of the book of Matthew, but in the verses below he is referred to four times by name. This may lead speakers of some languages to think that Jesus is not the main character. Or it might lead them to think that there is some kind of emphasis on him, even though there is no emphasis.\n\n> At that time __Jesus__ went on the Sabbath day through the grainfields. __His__ disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads of grain and eat them. But when the Pharisees saw that, they said to __Jesus__, \"See, your disciples do what is unlawful to do on the Sabbath.\"\n\n>But __Jesus__ said to them, \"Have you never read what David did, when he was hungry, and the men who were with him? ...\" \n\n>Then __Jesus__ left from there and went into their synagogue. (Matthew 12:1-9 ULB) \n\n\n### Translation Strategies \n\n1. If it would not be clear to your readers who or what a pronoun refers to, use a noun or name. \n1. If repeating a noun or name would lead people to think that a main character is not a main character, or that there is some kind of emphasis on someone when there is no emphasis, use a pronoun instead.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied \n\n1. If it would not be clear to your readers who or what a pronoun refers to, use a noun or name.\n\n  * **Again Jesus walked into the synagogue, and a man with a withered hand was there.  _They_ watched _him_ to see if _he_ would heal _him_ on the Sabbath.** (Mark 3:1-2 ULB) \n      * \"Again Jesus walked into the synagogue, and a man with a withered hand was there. __Some Pharisees__ watched __Jesus__ to see if __he__ would heal __the man__ on the Sabbath (UDB)\n\n2. If repeating a noun or name would lead people to think that a main character is not a main character, or that there is some kind of emphasis on someone when there is no emphasis, use a pronoun instead.\n\n> **At that time _Jesus_ went on the Sabbath day through the grain fields. _His_ disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads of grain and eat them. But when the Pharisees saw that, they said to _Jesus_, \"See, your disciples do what is unlawful to do on the Sabbath.\"**\n\n>**But _Jesus_ said to them, \"Have you never read what David did, when he was hungry, and the men who were with him? ...\"** \n\n>**Then _Jesus_ left from there and went into their synagogue.** (Matthew 12:1-9 ULB) \n\nMay be translated as:\n\n>\"At that time __Jesus__ went on the Sabbath day through the grain fields. __His__ disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads of grain and eat them. But when the Pharisees saw that, they said to __him__, \"See, your disciples do what is unlawful to do on the Sabbath.\"\n\n>But __Jesus__ said to them, \"Have you never read what David did, when he was hungry, and the men who were with him? ...\" \n\n>Then __he__ left from there and went into their synagogue.\" \n"
