"---\ntitle: Merism\nquestion: What does the word merism mean and how can I translate phrases that have it?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_merism\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/merism\ncredits: \n---\nMerism is a figure of speech in which a person refers to something by speaking of two extreme parts of it.\n\n### Description\n\nMerism is a figure of speech in which a person refers to something by speaking of two extreme parts of it.\n> \"I am the Alpha and the Omega,\" says the Lord God, \"the one who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.\" (Revelation 1:8, ULB)\n\n\n> I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End. (Revelation 22:13, ULB)\n\n\"Alpha and Omega\" is a merism that includes everything from the beginning to the end. It means eternal.\n>I praise you, Father, Lord of __heaven and earth__,  (Matthew 11:25 ULB)\n\n\"Heaven and earth\" is a merism that includes everything that exists.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\nSome readers may think that the phrase only applies to the items mentioned. They may not realize that it refers to those two things and everything in between. \n\n### Examples from the Bible\n>__From the rising of the sun to its setting__, Yahweh's name should be praised. (Psalm 113:3 ULB)\n\nThis underlined phrase is a merism because it speaks of the east and the west and everywhere in between. It means \"everywhere.\"\n>He will bless those who honor him, both __young and old__. (Psalm 115:13) \n\nThe underlined phrase is merism because it speaks of old people and young people and everyone in between. It means \"everyone.\"\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the merism would be natural and give the right meaning in your language, consider using it. If not, here are other options:\n\n  1. Identify what the merism refers to without mentioning the parts. \n  1. Identify what the merism refers to and include the parts.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Identify what the merism refers to without mentioning the parts.\n\n  * **I praise you, Father, Lord of __heaven and earth__**  (Matthew 11:25 ULB)\n      * \"I praise you, Father, Lord of __everything__\"\n\n  * **__From the rising of the sun to its setting__, Yahweh's name should be praised.** (Psalm 113:3 ULB)\n      * \"__In all places__, people should praise Yahweh.\"\n\n2. Identify what the merism refers to and include the parts.\n\n  * **I praise you, Father, Lord of __heaven and earth__**  (Matthew 11:25 ULB)\n      * \"I praise you, Father, Lord of __everything, including both what is in heaven and what is on earth__\"\n\n  * **He will bless those who honor him, both __young and old__.** (Psalm 115:13 ULB)  \n      * \"He will bless __all those__ who honor him, regardless of whether they are __young or old__.\"\n\n"
