"---\ntitle: Introduction of a New Event \nquestion: How do we introduce a new event in a story?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: writing_newevent\ndependencies: [\"writing_intro\", \"figs_events\"]\nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"writing_background\", \"writing_participants\"] \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/writingstyles_newevent\ncredits: \n---\nWhen people tell a story or when they start a new part of a story, they often put certain information at the beginning, such as who the story is about, when it happened, and where it happened. They may have certain ways of telling these things. For your translation to sound natural you may need to follow those ways.\n\n### Description\n\nWhen people tell a story, they tell about an event or a series of events. Often they put certain information at the beginning of the story, such as who the story is about, when it happened, and where it happened. New events in a story might involve new people, new times, and new places. In some languages people also tell if they saw the event or heard about it from someone else.\n\nWhen your people tell about events, what information do they give at the beginning? Is there a certain order that they put it in? You may need to change how and in what order new information is introduced at the beginning of a new event in order for your translation to sound natural in your language.\n\nHere are some examples of how some events are introduced in the books of Matthew and Luke.\n>__In the days of Herod__, king of Judea, __there was a certain priest named Zechariah__, from the division of Abijah. __His wife was__ from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. (Luke 1:5 ULB)\n\nThe verses above introduce a story about  Zechariah. The first underlined phrase tells when it happened, and the next two underlined phrase introduce the main people.\n> __One day__ while Zechariah was performing his duties as a priest before God in the order of his division,  the priests followed their custom and chose him by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. (Luke 1:8-9 ULB)\n\nLike 1:5-7 tell about Zechariah and Elizabeth being old and not having any children. The phrase __One day__ helps to introduces the first event in this story. \n>__The birth of Jesus Christ happened in the following way.__ His mother Mary was engaged to marry Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant by the Holy Spirit.  (Matthew 1:18 ULB)\n\nThe underlined sentence above makes it explicit that a story about Jesus is being introduced. The story will tell about how the birth of Jesus happened. \n>__After Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king__, learned men from the east arrived in Jerusalem saying,…  (Matthew 2:1 ULB)\n\nThe underlined phrase above shows that the events concerning the learned men happened __after__ Jesus was born.\n>__In those days__ John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea saying, … (Matthew 3:1-22 ULB)\n\nThe underlined phrase above shows that John the Baptist came preaching around the time of the previous events. It is probably very general and refers to when Jesus lived in Nazareth.\n>__Then__ Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan River to be baptized by John. (Matthew 3:13 ULB)\n\nThe word \"then\" shows that Jesus came to the Jordan River some time after the events in the previous verses.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n> Now there was a Pharisee whose name was Nicodemus, a member of the Jewish Council. This man came to Jesus at night time (John 3:1-2 ULB)\n\nThe author first introduced the new person and then told about what he did and when he did. In some languages it might be more natural to tell about the time first. \n><sup>6</sup>Noah was six hundred years old when the flood came upon the earth. <sup>7</sup>Noah, his sons, his wife, and his sons' wives went into the ark together because of the waters of the flood.  (Genesis 7:6,7 ULB)\n\nVerse 6 is a summary of the events that happen in the rest of the chapter. \nChapter 6 already told about how God told Noah that there would be a flood, and how Noah prepared for it. This sentence introduces the part of the story that tells about Noah and his family and the animals going into the ship, the rain starting, and the rain flooding the earth. Some languages might need to make it clear that this simply introduces the event. The people went into the ship before the flood came.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the information given at the beginning of a new event is clear and natural to your readers, consider translating it as it is in the ULB or UDB. If not, consider one of these strategies.\n\n  1. Put the information that introduces the event in the order that your people put it.\n  1. If readers would expect certain information but it is not in the Bible, consider using an indefinite word or phrase such as: another time, someone.\n  1. If the introduction is a summary of the whole event, use your language's way of showing that it is a summary. \n  1. If it would be strange in the target language to give a summary of the event at the beginning, show that the event would actually happen later in the story.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Put the information that introduces the event in the order that your people put it.\n\n  *  **Now there was a Pharisee whose name was Nicodemus, a member of the Jewish Council. This man came to Jesus at night time and said to him …**  (John 3:1,2)\n      *  \"There was a man whose name was Nicodemus. He was a Pharisee and a member of the Jewish Council. One night he came to Jesus and said…\" \n      *  \"One night a man named Nicodemus, who was a Pharisee and a member of the Jewish Council, came to Jesus and said …\" \n\n  * **As he passed by, __he saw Levi the son of Alpheus, who was sitting__ at the tax collecting place, and he said to him …**  (Mark 2:14 ULB)\n      * \"As he passed by, __Levi the son of Alpheus was sitting__ at the tax collecting place. Jesus saw him and and said to him …\"\n      * \"As he passed by, __there was a man sitting__ at the tax collecting place. His name was Levi, and he was the son of Alpheus. Jesus saw him and said to him …\"\n      * \"As he passed by, __there was a tax collector__ sitting at the tax collecting place. His name was Levi, and he was the son of Alpheus. Jesus saw him and said to him …\"\n\n2. If readers would expect certain information but it is not in the Bible, consider using an indefinite word or phrase such as: another time, someone.\n\n  * **Noah was six hundred years old when the flood came upon the earth.** (Genesis 7:6 ULB) - If people expect to be told something about when the new event happened, the phrase \"after that\" can help them see that it happened after the events already mentioned.\n      * \"__After that__, when Noah was six hundred years old, the flood came upon the earth.\"\n\n  * **Again he began to teach beside the lake.** (Mark 4:1 ULB) - In chapter 3 Jesus was teaching at someone's house. Readers may need to be told that this new event happened at another time, or that Jesus actually went to the lake.\n      * \"__Another time__ Jesus began to teach people again beside the lake.\"\n      * \"Jesus went to the lake and began to teach people again there.\"\n\n3. If the introduction is a summary of the whole event, use your language's way of showing that it is a summary. This is one way that it can be done in English.\n\n  * **Noah was six hundred years old when the flood came upon the earth.** (Genesis 7:6 ULB)\n      * \"__Now this is what happened when__ Noah was six hundred years old and the flood came upon the earth.\"\n\n4. If it would be strange in the target language to give a summary of the event at the beginning, show that the event would actually happen later in the story.\n\n  * **Noah was six hundred years old when the flood came upon the earth. Noah, his sons, his wife, and his sons' wives went into the ark together because of the waters of the flood.** (Genesis 7:6 ULB)\n      * \"__Now this is what happened when__ Noah was six hundred years old. Noah, his sons, his wife, and his sons' wives went into the ark together because __God had said that the waters of the flood would come__.\"\n"
