"---\ntitle: Ordinal Numbers\nquestion: What are ordinal numbers and how can I translate them?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: translate_ordinal\ndependencies:  [\"translate_numbers\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"translate_fraction\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/ordinal\ncredits: \n---\nOrdinal numbers are used in the Bible mainly to tell the position of something in a list.\n\n>He gave to the church __first__ apostles, __second__ prophets, __third__ teachers, then those who do powerful deeds (1 Corinthians 12:28 ULB)\n\nThis is a list of workers that God gave to the church in their order.\n\n### Description\n\nOrdinal numbers are used in the Bible mainly to tell the position of something in a list.\n\n>He gave to the church __first__ apostles, __second__ prophets, __third__ teachers, then those who do powerful deeds (1 Corinthians 12:28 ULB)\n\nThis is a list of workers that God gave to the church in their order.\n\n#### Ordinal Numbers in English\n\nMost ordinal numbers in English simply have  \"-th\" added to the end. \n\n| Numeral | Number  | Ordinal Number  |\n| -------- | -------- | -------- |\n| 4   | four | fourth |\n| 10 | ten |  tenth |\n| 100 | one hundred |  one hundredth | \n| 1,000| one thousand |  one thousandth | \n\n \nSome ordinal numbers in English do not follow that pattern. \n\n| Numeral | Number  | Ordinal Number  |\n| -------- | -------- | -------- |\n| 1   | one | first |\n| 2  | two |  second |\n| 3 | three |  third | \n| 5 | five | fifth | \n| 12 | twelve | twelfth |\n \n**Reason this is a translation issue**: Some languages do not have special numbers for showing the order of items in a list. There are different ways to deal with this. \n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>The __first__ lot went to Jehoiarib, the __second__ to Jedaiah, the __third__ to Harim, the __fourth__ to Seorim, … the __twenty-third__ to Delaiah, and the __twenty-fourth__ to Maaziah.  (1 Chronicles 24:7-18 ULB)\n\nPeople tossed lots and one went to each of these people in the order given.\n\n>You must place in it four rows of precious stones. The __first__ row must have a ruby, a topaz, and a garnet. The __second__ row must have an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.  The __third__ row must have a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst.  The __fourth__ row must have a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper. They must be mounted in gold settings.  (Exodus 28:17-20 ULB)\n\nThis describes four rows of stones. The first row is probably be the top row, and the fourth row is probably the bottom row.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf your language has ordinal numbers and using them would give the right meaning, consider using them. If not, here are some strategies to consider:\n\n  1. Use \"one\" with the first item and \"another\" or \"the next\" with the rest. \n  1. Tell the total number of items and then list them or the things associated with them.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Tell the total number of items, and use \"one\" with the first item and \"another\" or \"the next\" with the rest. \n\n  * **The first lot went to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,  the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, … the twenty-third to Delaiah,  and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.**  (1 Chronicles 24:7-18 ULB)\n      * \"There were __twenty-four__ lots. __One lot__ went to Jehoiarib, __another__ to Jedaiah, __another__  to Harim,…  __another__ to Delaiah, __and the last__ went to Maaziah.\"\n      * \"There were __twenty-four__ lots. __One lot__ went to Jehoiarib, __the next__ to Jedaiah, __the next__  to Harim,…  __the next__ to Delaiah, __and the last__ went to Maaziah.\"\n\n  * **A river went out of Eden to water the garden. From there it divided and became __four__ rivers. The name of __the first__ is Pishon. It is the one which flows throughout the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. The gold of that land is good. There is also bdellium and the onyx stone there. The name of __the second__ river is Gihon. This one flows throughout the whole land of Cush.  The name of __the third__ river is Tigris, which flows east of Asshur. __The fourth__ river is the Euphrates.**(Genesis 2:10-14 ULB)\n      * \"A river went out of Eden to water the garden. From there it divided and became __four__ rivers. The name of __one__ is Pishon. It is the one which flows throughout the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. The gold of that land is good. There is also bdellium and the onyx stone there. The name of __the next__ river is Gihon. This one flows throughout the whole land of Cush.  The name of __the next__ river is Tigris, which flows east of Asshur. The __last__ river is the Euphrates.\"\n\n2. Tell the total number of items and then list them or the things associated with them.\n\n  * **The first lot went to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, … the twenty-third to Delaiah, and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.** (1 Chronicles 24:7-18 ULB)\n      * \"They cast __twenty-four__ lots. The lots went to Jerhoiarib, Jedaiah, Harim, Seorim, … Delaiah, and Maaziah.\"\n\n\n"
