"===== Translate for Meaning =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //Why should I translate for meaning?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_dynamic|Meaning-Based Translations]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_process|The Translation Process]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_fandm|Form and Meaning]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_why|Why We Translate the Bible]]//\n\n==== The Importance of Meaning ====\n\nThe people who wrote the Bible had messages from God that God wanted people to understand. These original writers used whatever language that they and their people spoke at the time when God gave his message so that they and their people could understand God's messages. God wants people today to understand those same messages. But people today do not speak those languages that the Bible was written in long ago. So God has given us the task of translating the Bible into the languages that people speak today. \n\nFrom this we can see that the particular language that people use to communicate God's messages is not important. The particular words that are used is not important. What is important is the meaning that those words communicate. The meaning is the message, not the words or the language. What we must translate, then, is not the words or the forms of the sentences of the  source languages, but the meaning.\n\nLook at the pairs of sentences below. \n\n  * It rained all night.\n  * Rain fell all night.\n\n  * John was very surprised when he heard the news.\n  * The news very much amazed John when he heard it.\n\n  * It was a hot day.\n  * The day was hot.\n\n  * Peter's house\n  * The house that belongs to Peter\n\nYou can see that the meaning of each pair of sentences is the same, even though they use different words. This is the way it is in a good translation. We will use different words than the source text, but we will keep the meaning the same. We will use words that our people understand and use them in a way that is natural for our language. Communicating the same meaning as the source text in a clear and natural way is the goal of translation.\n\n\n\n\n//Credits: Example sentences from Barnwell, pp. 19-20, (c) SIL International 1986, used by permission.//\n\n//Next we recommend you learn about://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:choose_team|Choosing a Translation Team]]//\n\n"
