"---\ntitle: Euphemism\nquestion: What is a Euphemism?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_euphemism\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/euphemism\ncredits: \n---\nA euphemism is a mild or polite way of referring to something that is unpleasant, embarrassing, or socially unacceptable, such as death or activities usually done in private. Its purpose is to avoid offending the people who hear or read it. \n\n### Description\n\nA euphemism is a mild or polite way of referring to something that is unpleasant, embarrassing, or socially unacceptable. Its purpose is to avoid offending the people who hear or read it.\n>they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. (1 Chronicles 10:8 ULB)\n\nThis means that Saul and his sons were dead. It is euphemism because the important thing was not that Saul and his sons had fallen but that they were dead. Sometimes people do not like to speak directly about death because it is unpleasant.\n\n**Reason this is a translation issue:** Readers may think that the writer means only what the words literally say.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n> where there was a cave. Saul went inside to relieve himself (1 Samuel 24:3 ULB)\n\nThe original hearers would have understood that Saul went into the cave to use it as a toilet, but the writer wanted to avoid offending or distracting them, so he does not say specifically what Saul did or what he left in the cave.\n> whether we are awake or asleep (1 Thessalonians 5:10 ULB)\n\nPaul refers to being dead as being \"asleep\" so that instead of thinking that they will never see their loved ones again in this life, his readers will remember that they will see them again when Jesus establishes his kingdom.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf euphemism would be natural and give the right meaning in your language, consider using it. If not, here are other options:\n\n  1. Use a euphemism from your own culture.\n  1. State the information plainly without a euphemism if it would not be offensive.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1) Use a euphemism from your own culture.\n\n* **where there was a cave. Saul went inside to relieve himself** (1 Samuel 24:3 ULB) - Some languages might use euphemisms like these: \n    * \"where there was a cave. Saul went into the cave to use it as a toilet\"\n    * \"where there was a cave. Saul went into the cave to dig a hole\" \n    * \"where there was a cave. Saul went into the cave to have some time alone\" \n\n2) State the information plainly without a euphemism if it would not be offensive.\n\n* **whether we are awake or asleep** (1 Thessalonians 5:10 ULB)\n    * \"whether we are alive or dead\"\n\n"
