"---\ntitle: When Masculine Words Include Women\nquestion: How do I translate \"brother\" or \"he\" when it could refer to anyone, male or female?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_gendernotations\ndependencies: [\"figs_pronouns\", \"figs_genericnoun\"] \nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/gender\ncredits: \n---\nIn some parts of the Bible, the words \"men,\" \"brothers\" and \"sons\" refer only to men. In other parts of the Bible, those words include both men and women. When the writer meant both men and women, translators need to translate it in a way that does not limit the meaning to men.\n\n### Description\n\nIn some languages a word that normally refers to men can be used to refer to both men and women. For example, the Bible sometimes says 'brothers' when it refers to both brothers and sisters. \n\nAlso in some languages, the masculine pronouns \"he\" and \"him\" can be used for any person if it is not import whether the person is a man or women. In the example below, the pronoun is \"his,\" but it is not limited to males.\n>A wise child makes __his__ father rejoice  \n>but a foolish child brings grief to __his__ mother. (Proverbs 10:1 ULB)\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\n  * In some cultures words like \"man,\" \"brother,\" and \"son\" can only be used to refer to men. If those words are used in a translation, people will think that what is being said does not apply to women.\n  * In some cultures, the masculine pronouns \"he\" and \"him\" can only refer to men. If a masculine pronoun is used, people will think that what is said does not apply to women.\n\n#### Translation Principles\n\nWhen a statement applies to both men and women, translate it in such a way that people will be able to understand that.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n> The wise __man__ dies just like the fool dies. (Ecclesiastes 2:16 ULB)\n\nThis verse is not speaking only of men, but of men and women.\n\n> Then said Jesus to his disciples, \"If anyone wants to follow me, __he__ must deny __himself__, take up __his__ cross, and follow me.\" (Matthew 16:24-26 ULB)\n\nJesus was not speaking only of men, but of men and women.\n\n**Caution**: Sometimes masculine words are used specifically to refer to men. Do not use words that would lead people to think that they include women. The underlined words below are specifically about men.\n\n>Moses said, 'If a __man__ dies, having no children, __his__ __brother__ must marry __his__ wife and have a child for __his__ __brother__.' (Mark 22:24 ULB)\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf people would understand that that masculine words like \"man,\" \"brother,\" and \"he\" can include women, then consider using them. Otherwise, here are some ways for translating those words when they include women. \n\n  1. Use a noun that can be used for both men and women.\n  1. Use a word that refers to men and a word that refers to women.\n  1. Use pronouns that can be used for both men and women.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use nouns that can be used for both men and women.\n\n  * **The wise __man__ dies just like the fool dies.** (Ecclesiastes 2:16 ULB)\n      * \"The wise __person__ dies just like the fool dies.\" \n      * \"Wise __people__ die just like fools die.\"\n\n2. Use a word that refers to men and a word that refers to women.\n\n  * **For we do not want you to be ignorant, __brothers__, about the troubles we had in Asia** (2 Corinthians 1:8) - Paul was writing this letter to both men and women.\n      * \"For we do not want you to be ignorant, __brothers and sisters__, about the troubles we had in Asia\" (2 Corinthians 1:8)\n\n3. Use pronouns that can be used for both men and women.\n\n  * **If anyone wants to follow me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me.\"** (Matthew 16:24 ULB) - English speakers can change the singular pronouns \"he\" \"himself\" and \"his\" to plural pronouns \"they\" \"themselves\" and \"their\" in order to show that it applies to all people, not just men.\n      * \"If people want to follow me, __they__ must deny __themselves__, take up __their__ cross, and follow me.\"\n\n"
