"---\ntitle: Double Negatives\nquestion: What are double negatives?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_doublenegatives\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_verbs\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/double-negatives\ncredits: \n---\nA double negative occurs when a clause has two words that express the meaning of \"not.\"  Double negatives mean very different things in different languages. To translate sentences that have double negatives accurately and clearly, you need to know what a double negative means in the Bible and how to express this idea in your language.\n\n### Description\n\nMost languages express the negative near the verb or at the beginning or end of the sentence. Some languages also have prefixes or suffixes that express the negative as in  \"__un__happy,\" \"__im__possible,\" and \"use__less__.\" Some languages can also express the negative with pronouns like \"none,\" \"nothing,\" and \"no one,\" with adverbs like \"nowhere,\" and with prepositions like \"without.\"\n\nA double negative occurs when a sentence has two words that express the meaning of \"not.\"\n>It is __not__ that we do __not__ have authority (2 Thessalonians 3:9 ULB) \n\n<blockquote>And this better confidence did __not__ happen __without__ the taking of an oath, (Hebrews 7:20 ULB) </blockquote>\n\n>Be sure of this—wicked people will __not__ go __un__punished (Proverbs 11:21 ULB)\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nDouble negatives mean very different things in different languages. \n\n  * In some languages, such as Spanish, a double negative emphasizes the negative. The following Spanish sentence *No ví a nadie* is literally \"I did not see no one.\" It has both the word 'no' next to the verb and 'nadie,' which means \"no one.\" It emphasis the negative, and means \"I did not see anyone.\"\n  * In some languages a double negative simply means a positive. So \"She is not unattractive\" means \"She is attractive.\" \n  * In some language the double negative weakens the adjective. So \"She is not unattractive\" means \"She is a little bit attractive.\" \n  * In some languages, such as the languages of the Bible, the double negative often strengthens the adjective. So \"She is not unattractive\" means \"She is very attractive.\"\n\nTo translate sentences with double negatives accurately and clearly in your language, you need to know what a double negative means in the Bible and how to express the same idea in your language. \n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>so that they may __not__ be __un__fruitful. (Titus 3:14 ULB) \n\nThis means \"so that they will be fruitful.\"\n>All things were made through him and __without__ him there was __not__ one thing made that has been made. (John 1:3 ULB)\n\nBy using a double negative John emphasized that the Son of God created absolutely everything.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf double negatives are natural and are used to express the positive in your language, consider using them.  Otherwise, you could consider these strategies:\n\n1. If the double negative simply expresses the positive, remove the two negatives.\n1. If the double negative emphasizes the positive, remove the two negatives and put in a strengthening word or phrase such as \"very\" or \"surely.\"\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. If the double negative simply expresses the positive, remove the two negatives.\n\n  * **For we do __not__ have a high priest who can__not__ feel sympathy for our weaknesses** (Hebrews 4:15  ULB)\n      * \"For we have a hight priest who can feel sympathy for our weaknesses\"\n\n  * **so that they may __not__ be __un__fruitful** (Titus 3:14 ULB) \n      * \"so that they may be fruitful\"\n\n2. If the double negative emphasizes the positive, remove the two negatives and put in a strengthening word or   phrase such as \"very\" or \"certainly.\"\n\n  * **Be sure of this—wicked people will __not__ go __un__punished** (Proverbs 11:21 ULB)\n      * \"Be sure of this—wicked people will __certainly__ be punished\"\n\n  * **All things were made through him and __without__ him there was __not__ one thing made that has been made.** (John 1:3 ULB) \n      * \"All things were made through him. He made __absolutely__ everything that has been made.\"\n\n"
