"---\ntitle: Sentence Structure\nquestion: What are the parts of a sentence?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_sentences\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_order\", \"figs_distinguish\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/sentencestructure\ncredits: \n---\n\n\n### Description \n\nThe simplest sentence structure in English includes a  **subject** and an **action** word: \n\n  * The boy ran.\n\n#### Subject \n\nThe ***subject*** is who or what the sentence is about. In these examples, the subject is underlined: \n\n* __The boy__  is running.\n* __He__ is running.\n\nSubjects are typically noun phrases or pronouns. (See: [Parts of Speach](figs_partsofspeech.md)) In the examples above, \"the boy\" is a noun phrase that has the noun 'boy,' and \"he\" is a pronoun.\n\nWhen the sentence is a command, it usually does not have a subject pronoun. People understand that the subject is \"you.\"\n\n* Close the door.\n\n#### Predicate \n\nThe predicate is the part of a sentence that tells something about the subject. It usually has a verb. (See: [Verbs](figs_verbs.md))  In the sentences below, the subjects are \"the man\" and \"he.\" The predicates are underlined and the verbs are in bold.\n\n  * The man __**is** strong__.\n  * He __**worked** hard__.\n  * He __**made** a garden__.\n\n#### Compound Sentences \n\nA sentence can be made up of more than one sentence. Each of the two lines below has a subject and a predicate and is a full sentence.\n\n  * He planted the yams.\n  * His wife planted the corn.\n\nThe compound sentence below has the two sentences above. In English, compound sentences are joined with a conjunction such as \"and,\" \"but,\" or \"or\".\n\n  * He planted the yams __and__ his wife planted the corn.\n\n#### Clauses \n\nSentences can also have clauses and other phrases. Clauses are like sentences because they have a subject and a predicate, but they do not normally occur by themselves. Here are some examples of clauses. The subjects are in bold, and the predicates are underlined.\n\n  * when **the corn** __was ready__\n  * after **she** __picked it__\n  * because **it** __tasted so good__\n\nClauses are usually only part of a sentence. The clauses are underlined in the sentences below.\n\n  * __When the corn was ready__, she picked it.\n  * __After she picked it__, she carried it home and cooked it.\n  * Then she and her husband ate it all, __because it tasted so good__.\n\nThe following phrases can be a whole sentence.\n\n  * She picked it.\n  * She carried it home and cooked it.\n  * Then she and her husband ate it all.\n\nNote: We are using the word **clause** for 'dependent clause' and **sentence** for 'independent clause.' \n\n#### Relative Clauses \n\nIn some languages, clauses can be used with a noun that is part of a sentence. These are called **relative clauses**.\n\nIn the sentence below, \"the corn that was ready\" is part of the predicate of the whole sentence. The relative clause \"that he had planted\" is used with the noun \"corn\" to tell which corn she picked.\n\n  * His wife picked **the corn** __that was ready__.\n\nIn the sentence below \"his mother, who was very annoyed\" is part of the predicate of the whole sentence. The relative clause \"who was very annoyed\" is used with the noun \"mother\" to tell how her mother felt when she did not get any corn.\n\n  * She did not give any corn to **her mother, __who was very annoyed__**.\n\n#### Translation Issues \n\n  * Languages have different orders for the parts of a sentence. \n  * Some languages do not have relative clauses, or they use them in a limited way. (See:  [Distinguishing versus Informing or Reminding](figs_distinguish.md))\n\n\n\n"
