"---\ntitle: Create Equal Translations\nquestion: What is an equal translations?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: guidelines_equal\ndependencies:  [\"guidelines_intro\", \"translation_guidelines\"]\nstatus: Review\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"translate_discover\", \"figs_intro\", \"figs_rquestion\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translation/equal\ncredits: \n---\nEnsure that any **expressive** meaning comes across similarly in the target language as it does in the source language. Especially notice the forms in the source text that communicate certain kinds of emotions and choose forms in the target language that communicate the same emotions. Examples of some of these forms follow.\n\n#### Idioms\n\nDetermine the meaning of difficult idioms, proverbs and figures of speech and translate them with meaningful expressions in your language.  Usually idioms cannot be translated literally into another language. The meaning of the idiom has to be expressed in a way that is natural in the other language.\n\nHere are three translations, all with the same meaning, of Acts 18:6:  \n\n* \"Your blood be upon your heads! I am innocent\"  (RSV)\n* \"If you are lost, you yourselves must take the blame for it! I am not responsible\" (GNB)\n* \"If God punishes you, it is because of you, not me!\" (TFT)\n\nThese are all accusations of guilt. Some are using idioms with the word \"blood\" or \"lost,\" while the third is more direct using the word \"punishes.\" In order for your translation to be equal, it must also express an accusation in an emotional way, and may use an idiom, as long as both the form of the accusation and the idiom are appropriate for the target language and culture. \n\n#### Figures of Speech\n\nA figure of speech is a special way of saying something in order to catch the attention or express an emotion about what is said. Often the meaning of a figure of speech is different from the literal meaning of the words. The meaning is not intended to be taken literally. \n\nHere are some examples:\n\n* **I was shattered!**   The speaker was not literally broken, but he felt very bad.\n* **He closed his ears to what I was saying.**  Meaning, \"he chose to not listen to what I was saying.\"\n* **The wind moaned in the trees.** This means that the wind blowing through the trees sounded like a person moaning.\n* **The whole world came to the meeting.**  Everyone in the world did not attend the meeting. Most likely there were many people at the meeting.\n\nEach language has different figures of speech, make sure you can:\n\n* Recognize that a figure of speech is being used\n* Recognize the purpose of the figure of speech\n* Recognize the real meaning of the figure of speech\n\nIt is the **real meaning** that should be translated into your language, not the meaning of the individual words. Once you understand the real meaning, you can choose an expression in the target language that communicates that same meaning and emotion.\n\nFor more information, see the [Figures of Speech](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol1/src/master/content/figs_intro.md) lesson as well.  \n\n#### Rhetorical Questions\n\n**[Rhetorical Questions](https://git.door43.org/Door43/en-ta-translate-vol1/src/master/content/figs_rquestion.md)** are another way that the speaker captures the attention of the reader. Rhetorical questions are a type of question that does not expect an answer or ask for information. They usually express some kind of emotion and can be intended as a rebuke, a warning, or to express surprise.\n\nSee, for example, Matthew 3:7: \"You offspring of poisonous snakes, who warned you to flee from the wrath that is coming?\" \n\nHere no answer is expected. The speaker is not asking for information, he is rebuking his hearers.  It does no good to warn these people of God's wrath, because they refuse the only way to escape it: to repent of their sins.  \n\nYou may need to restate this rhetorical question as a statement when you translate, if your language does not use rhetorical questions in this way.  But remember, be sure to keep the same purpose and meaning, and communicate the same emotion as the original rhetorical question had.\n\n**Remember:** Communicate the feelings and attitudes of the original text.  Translate them into forms that communicate in a similar way in your language. Consider how that meaning can best be **Accurately**, **Clearly**, **Equally**, and **Naturally Expressed** in the Target Language.\n"
