"---\ntitle: Biblical Imagery - Man-made Objects\nquestion: What are some examples things people make that are used as images in the Bible?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: bita_manmade\ndependencies:  [\"translate_bita_part1\", \"figs_metaphor\", \"figs_metonymy\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/biblicalimageryta_manmade\ncredits: \n---\n\nSome images from the Bible involving man-made objects are listed below in alphabetical order. The word in all capital letters represents an image. The word does not necessarily appear in every verse that has the image, but the idea that the word represents does.\n\n#### BRONZE represents strength\n\n>He trains…my arms to bend a bow of bronze.  Psalm 18:34 ULB)\n\n\n#### CHAINS represent control \n\n>Let us tear off the shackles they put on us and throw off their chains.  Psalm 2:3\n\n\n#### CLOTHING represents moral qualities (emotions, attitudes, spirit, life) \n\n>It is God who puts strength on me like a belt. (Psalm 18:32 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>Righteousness will be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt around his hips. (Isaiah 11:5 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>May my adversaries be clothed with shame; may they wear their shame like a robe. (Psalm 109:29 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>I will clothe his enemies with shame. (Psalm 132:18 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n#### A SNARE (A LIGHT TRAP FOR BIRDS WORKED BY CORDS) represents death \n\n>For he will rescue you from the snare of the hunter.  (Psalm 91:3 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>The cords of death surrounded me, and the snares of sheol confronted me.  (Psalm 116:3 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>The cords of the wicked have ensnared me. (Psalm 119:61 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>The wicked have set a snare for me.  (Psalm 119:110 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>The wicked is ensnared by his own actions. (Psalm 9:16 ULB)\n\n\n#### A SNARE IS PERSUASION TO DO EVIL \n\n>They mingled with the nations and learned their ways and worshiped their idols, which became a snare to them.  (Psalm 106:35-36 ULB)\n\n\n#### A TENT represents a house, home, people in one's home, descendants \n\n>God will likewise destroy you forever; he will take you up and pluck you out of your tent.  (Psalm 52:5 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>The house of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish. (Proverbs 14:11 ULB)</blockquote>\n\n\n>A throne will be established in covenant faithfulness, and one from David's tent will faithfully sit there. (Isaiah 16:5 ULB)\n\n\n"
