"---\ntitle: Nominal Adjectives\nquestion: How do I translate adjectives that act like nouns?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_nominaladj\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/nominaladjective\ncredits: \n---\nMany times in the Bible adjectives are used as nouns to describe a group of people.\n\n### Description\n\nIn some languages an adjective can be used to refer to a class of things that the adjective describes. When it does, it acts like a noun. For example, the word \"rich\" is an adjective. Here are two sentences that show that \"rich\" is an adjective.\n> __The rich man__ had huge numbers of flocks and herds, (2 Samuel 12:2 ULB)\n\nThe adjective \"rich\" comes before the word \"man\" and describes \"man.\"\n>__He will not be rich__; his wealth will not last; (Job 15:29 ULB)\n\nThe adjective \"rich\" comes after the verb \"be\" and describes \"He.\"\n>…__the rich__ must not give more than the half shekel, and __the poor__ must not give less.  (Exodus 30:15 ULB)\n\nIn Exodus 30:15, the word \"rich\" acts as a noun in the phrase \"the rich,\" and it refers to rich people. The word \"poor\" also acts as a noun and refers to poor people.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\n  * Some languages do not use adjectives this way.\n  * Readers may think that the text is talking about one particular person when it is really talking about many people whom the adjective describes.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>The scepter of wickedness must not rule in the land of __the righteous__.  (Psalms 125:3 ULB)\n\n\"The righteous\" here are people who are righteous, not one particular righteous person.\n>Blessed are __the meek__ (Matthew 5:5 ULB) \n\n\"The meek\" here are people who are meek, not one particular meek person.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf your language uses adjectives as nouns to refer to a class of people, consider using the adjectives this way. If it would sound strange, or if the meaning would be unclear or wrong, here is another option:\n\n  1. Use the adjective with a plural form of the noun that the adjective describes.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use the adjective with a plural form of the noun that the adjective describes.\n\n  * **The scepter of wickedness must not rule in the land of __the righteous__.**  (Psalms 125:3 ULB)\n      * \"The scepter of wickedness must not rule in the land of __righteous people__.\"\n\n  * **Blessed are __the meek__** (Matthew 5:5 ULB)\n      * \"Blessed are __people who are meek__\"\n\n"
