"---\ntitle: Verbs\nquestion: What are verbs and what kinds of things are associated with them?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_verbs\ndependencies:  [\"figs_partsofspeech\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_sentences\", \"figs_activepassive\", \"figs_pastforfuture\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/verbs\ncredits: \n---\n### Description\n\nVerbs are words that refer to an action or event or that are used in describing or identifying things. The verbs in the examples below are underlined. \n\n  * John __ran__.  (\"Run\" is an action.)\n  * John __ate__ a banana.  (\"Eat\" is an action.)\n  * John __saw__ Mark. (\"See\" is an event.)\n  * John __died.__  (\"Die\" is an event.)\n  * John __is__ tall.  (The phrase \"is tall\" describes John. The word \"is\" is a verb that links \"John\" with \"tall\".)\n  * John __looks__ handsome. (The phrase \"is handsome\" describes John. The word \"looks\" here is a verb that links \"John\" with \"handsome.\")\n  * John __is__ my brother. (The phrase \"is my brother\" identifies John.)\n\n### People or Things Associated with a Verb\n\nA verb usually says something about someone or something. All of the example sentences above say something about John. \"John\" is the **subject** of those sentences. In English the subject usually comes before the verb.\n\nSometimes there is another person or thing associated with the verb. In the examples below, the underlined one is the verb, and the phrase in bold print is the **object**. In English the object usually comes after the verb. \n\n  * He __ate__ **lunch**.\n  * He __sang__ **a song**.\n  * He __read__ **a book**.\n  * He __saw__ **the book**.\n\nSome verbs never have an object.\n\n  * The sun __rose__ at six o'clock.\n  * John __slept__ well.\n  * John __fell__ yesterday.\n\nIn English, it is sometimes alright to leave out the object when the object is not important in the sentence.\n\n  * He never __eats__ at night. \n  * He  __sings__ all the time.\n  * He __reads__ well.\n  * He cannot __see__. \n\nIn some languages, a verb that needs an object must always take one, even if the object is not very important. People who speak those languages might say the sentences above like this. \n\n  * He never __eats__  **food** at night. \n  * He  __sings__ **songs** all the time.\n  * He __reads__ **words** well.\n  * He cannot __see__ **anything**.\n\n### Subject and Object Marking on Verbs   \n  \nIn some languages, the verb may be a little bit different depending on the persons or things associated with it. For example, English speakers sometimes put \"s\" at the end of the verb when the subject is just one person. In other languages marking on the verb may show whether the subject is \"I,\" \"you,\" or \"he\"; singular or plural; or male or female. \n\n* They __eat__ bananas every day. (The subject \"they\" is more than one person.) \n* John __eats__ bananas every day. (The subject \"John\" is one person.) \n\n### Time and Tense\n\nWhen we tell about an event, we usually tell whether it is in the past, the present, or the future. Sometimes we do this with words like \"yesterday,\" \"now,\" or \"tomorrow.\"\n\nIn some languages the verb may be a little bit different depending on the time associated with it. This kind of marking on a verb is called \"**tense**\". English speakers sometimes put \"ed\" at the end of the verb when the event happened in the past.\n\n  * Sometimes Mary __cooks__ meat.\n  * Yesterday Mary __cooked__ meat.  (She did this in the past.)\nIn some languages speakers might add a word to tell something about the time. English speakers use the word \"will\" when the verb refers to something in the future.\n  * Tomorrow Mary __will cook__ meat. \n\n### Aspect\n\nWhen we tell about an event, we usually show whether or not we are thinking about how the event progressed over a period of time, and whether or not the event is still relevant when something else happens. This is \"**aspect**\". English speakers sometimes use the verbs \"is\" or \"has\" and adds \"s,\" \"ing,\" or \"ed\" to the end of the verb.\n\n  * Mary __cooks__ meat every day. (This tell about something Mary often does.)\n  * Mary __is cooking__ the meat. (This tells about something Mary is in the process of doing right now.)\n  * Mary __cooked__ the meat, and John __came__ home.  (This simply tells about things that Mary and John did.)\n  * While Mary __was cooking__ the meat, John came home. (This tells about something Mary was in the process of doing when John came home)\n  * Mary __has cooked__ the meat, and she wants us to come eat it. (This tells about something Mary did that is still relevant now.)\n  * Mary __had cooked__ the meat by the time Mark came home. (This tells about something that Mary completed in the past before something else happened.)\n\n\n\n\n\n"
