"---\ntitle: Biblical Imagery - Common Patterns\nquestion: In the Bible, what ideas are often used to represent other ideas?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: bita_part1\ndependencies:  [\"translate_bita\", \"figs_metaphor\", \"figs_simile\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/biblicalimageryta_part1\ncredits: \n---\n\n_This page discusses ideas that are paired together in limited ways. For a discussion of more complex pairings, see [Biblical Imagery - Cultural Models](translate_bita_part3.md)._\n\n### Description \n\nIn all languages, most **metaphors** come from broad patterns of pairings of ideas in which one idea represents another. For example, some languages have the pattern of pairing __height__ with \"much\" and pairing __being low__ with  \"not much,\" so that __height__ represents \"much\" and __being low__ represents \"not much.\" This could be because when there is a lot of something in a pile, that pile will be high. So also if something costs a lot money, in some languages people would say that the price is __high__, or if a city has more people in it than it used to have, we might say that its number of people has gone __up__. Likewise if someone gets thinner and loses weight, we would say that their weight has gone __down__. \n\nThe patterns found in the Bible are often unique to the Hebrew and Greek languages. It is useful to recognize these patterns because they repeatedly present translators with the same problems on how to translate them. Once translators think through how they will handle these translation challenges, they will be ready to meet them anywhere.\n\nFor example, one pattern of pairings in the Bible is of __walking__ with   \"behaving\" and __a path__ with a kind of behavior. In Psalm 1:1 the walking in the advice of the wicked represents doing what wicked people say to do.\n\n>Blessed is the man who does not __walk__ in the advice of the wicked (Psalm 1:1)\n\n\nThis pattern is also seen in Psalm 119:32 where running in the path of God's commands represents doing what God commands. Since running is more intense than walking, the idea of running here might give the idea of doing this whole-heartedly.\n\n> I will __run in the path__ of your commandments. (Psalm 119:32 ULB)\n\n\n#### Reasons this is a translation Issue \n\nThese patterns present three challenges to anyone who wants to identify them:\n\n(1) When looking at particular metaphors in the Bible, it is not always obvious what two ideas are paired with each other. For example, it may not be immediately obvious that the expression //It is God who puts strength on me like a belt// (Psalm 18:32 ULB) is based on the pairing of clothing with moral quality. In this case, the image of a belt represents strength. (See: \"Clothing represents a moral quality\" in [Biblical Imagery - Man-made Objects](translate_bita_manmade.md))\n\n(2) When looking at a particular expression, the translator needs to know whether or not it represents something. This can only be done by considering the surrounding text. The surrounding text shows us for example, whether \"lamp\" refers concretely to a container with oil and a wick for giving light or whether \"lamp\" is an image  that represents life. (See: \"FIRE or LAMP represents life\" in [Biblical Imagery - Natural Phenomena](translate_bita_phenom.md)). \n\nIn 1 Kings 7:50, a lamp trimmer is a tool for trimming the wick on an ordinary lamp. In 2 Samuel 21:17 the lamp of Israel represents King David's life. When his men were concerned that he might \"put out the lamp of Israel\" they were concerned that he might be killed.\n\n<blockquote>The cups, __lamp__ trimmers, basins, spoons, and incense burners were all made of pure gold.  (1 Kings 7:50)</blockquote>\n\n\n>Ishbibenob...intended to kill David. But Abishai the son of Zeruiah rescued David, attacked the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, \"You must not go to battle anymore with us, so that you do not put out the __lamp__ of Israel.\" (2 Samuel 21:16-17)\n\n\n(3) Expressions that are based on these pairings of ideas frequently combine together in complex ways. Moreover, they frequently combine with—and in some cases are based on—common metonymies and cultural models.  (See: [Biblical Imagery - Common Metonymies](translate_bita_part2.md) and [Biblical Imagery - Cultural Models](translate_bita_part3.md).) For example, in 2 Samuel 14:7 below, \"the burning coal\" is an image for the life of the son, who represents what will cause people to remember his father. So there are two patterns of pairings here: the pairing of the burning coal with the life of the son, and the pairing of the son with the memory of his father.\n\n>They say, 'Hand over the man who struck his brother, so that we may put him to death, to pay for the life of his brother whom he killed.' And so they would also destroy the heir. Thus they will put out __the burning coal__ that I have left, and they will leave for __my husband neither name nor descendant__ on the surface of the earth. (2 Samuel 14:7 ULB)\n\n\n#### Links to Lists of Images in the Bible \n\nThe following pages have lists of some of the ideas that represent others in the Bible, together with examples from the Bible. They are organized according to the kinds of image:\n\nA. [Biblical Imagery - Body Parts and Human Qualities](translate_bita_humanqualities.md)\n\nB. [Biblical Imagery - Human Behavior](translate_bita_humanbehavior.md) - Includes both physical and non-physical actions, condition and experiences.\n\nC. [Biblical Imagery - Plants](translate_bita_plants.md)\n\nD. [Biblical Imagery - Natural Phenomena](translate_bita_phenom.md)\n\nE. [Biblical Imagery - Man-made Objects](translate_bita_manmade.md)\n"
