"---\ntitle: Quotations and Quote Margins\nquestion: What are quote margins and where should I put them?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: writing_quotations\ndependencies: \nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: [\"figs_quotations\"]\noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/writingstyles_quotations\ncredits: \n---\nWhen saying that someone said something, we often tell who spoke, who they spoke to, and what they said. The information about who spoke and who they spoke to is called the **quote margin**. What the person said is the **quotation.** (This is also called a quote.) In some languages the quote margin may come first, last, or even in between two parts of the quotation. \n\n### Description\n\nWhen saying that someone said something, we often tell who spoke, who they spoke to, and what they said. The information about who spoke and who they spoke to is called the **quote margin**. What the person said is the quote. In some languages the quote margin may come first, last, or even in between to parts of the quote. The quote margins are underlined below.\n\n* __She said__, \"The food is ready. Come and eat.\"\n* \"The food is ready. Come and eat,\" __she said__\n* \"The food is ready,\" __she said.__ \"Come and eat.\"\n\nAlso in some languages, the quote margin may have more than one verb meaning \"said\".\n\n>But his mother __answered__ and __said__, \"No, instead he will be called John.\" (Luke 1:60 ULB)\n\nWhen writing that someone said something, some languages put the quote (what was said) in quotation marks called inverted commas (\"_\").\n\n#### Reasons this is a translation issue\n\n  * Translators need to put the quote margin where it is most clear and natural in their language.\n  * Translators need to decide whether they want the quote margin to have one or two verbs meaning \"said\".\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n##### Quote margin before the quote\n\n>__Zechariah said to the angel__, \"How will I know this will happen? For I am an old man, and my wife also is very old.\"  (Luke 1:18 ULB)\n\n>Then some tax collectors also came to be baptized, and __they said to him__, \"Teacher, what must we do?\" (Luke 3:12 ULB)\n\n>__He to them,__ \"Do not collect more money than you are supposed to.\" (Luke 3:13 ULB)\n\n##### Quote margin after the quote\n\n>Yahweh relented concerning this. \"It will not happen,\" __he said__.  (Amos 7:3 ULB)\n\n##### Quote margin between two parts of the quote\n\n>\"I will hide my face from them,\" __he said,__ \"and I will see what their end will be; for they are a perverse generation, children who are unfaithful.\"  (Deuteronomy 32:20 ULB)\n\n>\"Therefore, those who can,\" __he said,__ \"should go there with us. If there is something wrong with the man, you should accuse him.\"  (Acts 25:5 ULB)\n\n>\"For look, days are coming\"—__this is Yahweh's declaration__—\"when I will restore the fortunes of my people, Israel\"  (Jeremiah 30:3 ULB)\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\n  1. Decide where to put the quote margin.\n  1. Decide whether to use one or two words meaning \"said.\"\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Decide where to put the quote margin.\n\n  * **\"Therefore, those who can,\" __he said,__ \"should go there with us. If there is something wrong with the man, you should accuse him.\"**  (Acts 25:5 ULB)\n      * __He said__ \"Therefore, those who can should go there with us. If there is something wrong with the man, you should accuse him.\"\n      * \"Therefore, those who can should go there with us. If there is something wrong with the man, you should accuse him,\" __he said__.\n      * \"Therefore, those who can should go there with us,\" __he said.__ \"If there is something wrong with the man, you should accuse him.\"\n\n2. Decide whether to use one or two words meaning \"said.\"\n\n  * **But his mother __answered and said__, \"No, instead he will be called John.\"** (Luke 1:60 ULB)\n      * But his mother __replied__, \"No, instead he will be called John.\"\n      * But his mother __said__, \"No, instead he will be called John.\"\n      * But his mother __answered__ like this. \"No, instead he will be called John,\" she __said__.\n\n\n"
