"---\ntitle: Hyperbole\nquestion: What is hyperbole?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: figs_hyperbole\ndependencies:  [\"figs_intro\"]\nstatus:  finished\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/translate/hyperbole\ncredits: \n---\nHyperbole is a figure of speech in which the speaker shows that something is very important  by describing it as larger or greater than it really is. He may greatly exaggerate something in order to show his strong feeling or opinion about it, or he may generalize the situation by using words like \"every\" or \"all\" to mean \"many.\" \n\n### Description\n\nHyperbole is a figure of speech in which the speaker shows that something is very important by describing it as larger or greater than it really is. There are two kinds of hyperbole:\n\n1. Exaggeration: This is when a speaker deliberately describes something by an extreme or even unreal statement, usually to show his strong feeling or opinion about it.\n>Whoever does not __carry his own cross__ and come after me cannot be my disciple. (Luke 14:27 ULB) - This is an exaggeration. It means that whoever wants to be Jesus' disciple must be determined to follow him faithfully, even if his enemies were to kill that person.\n\n2. Generalization: This is when a speaker uses words like \"every\" or \"all\" to mean something like \"very many,\" but not \"__every__  one.\" (Some people may not call generalization like this \"hyperbole.\")\n>Moses was educated in __all the learning of the Egyptians__ (Acts 7:22 ULB) - This is a generalization. It means that he had learned much of what the Egyptians knew and taught.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\nIf readers do not understand that a statement is a hyperbole, they may either think that something happened that did not happen, or they may think that the speaker or writer was saying something that is not true. \n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n#### Examples of Exaggeration\n\n>If your hand causes you to stumble, __cut it off__. It is better for you to enter into life maimed… (Mark 9:43 ULB)\n\nWhen Jesus said to cut off your hand, he meant that we should do whatever extreme things we need to do in order not to sin. He used this hyperbole to show how extremely important it is to try to stop sinning. \n>If anyone comes to me and does not __hate__ his own father, mother, wife, children, brothers and sisters--yes, and his own life also--he cannot be my disciple. (Luke 14:26 ULB) \n\nBecause of many other things that Jesus said, we know that his use of the word \"hate\" here is hyperbole. He meant that we must not love even our own family members more than we love him. We must love him more than we love ourselves or anyone else.\n>The Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel: thirty thousand chariots, six thousand men to drive the chariots, and troops __as numerous as the sand on the seashore__. (1 Samuel 13:5 ULB)\n\nThe underlined phrase is an exaggeration. It means that there were  many, many soldiers in the Philistine army. \n\n#### Examples of Generalization\n\n>They found him, and they said to him, \"__Everyone__ is looking for you.\" (Mark 1:37 ULB)\n\nThe disciples told Jesus that everyone was looking looking for him. They probably did not mean that everyone in the city was looking for him, but that many people were looking for him, or that all of Jesus closest friends there were looking for him.\n>But as his anointing teaches you about __all things__ and is true and is not a lie, and even as it has taught you, remain in him. (1 John 2:27 ULB)  \n\n This is a generalization. God's Spirit teaches us about all things that we need to know.\n\n#### Caution\n\nDo not assume that something is hyperbole just because it seems to be impossible. God does miraculous things.\n>… they saw Jesus __walking on the sea__ and coming near the boat … (John 6:19 ULB)  \n\nThis  is not hyperbole. Jesus really walked on the water. It is a literal statement.\n>… for __all__ have sinned and come short of the glory of God.  (Romans 3:23 ULB) \n\nThe word \"all\" here is not hyperbole. All humans have sinned. The only human who has never sinned is Jesus Christ, the Son of God.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the hyperbole would be natural and people would understand it and not think that it is a lie, consider using it. If not, here is another option.\n\n  1. Express the meaning without the hyperbole. For example \"all the people\" could be translated as \"large crowds of people.\"\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Express the meaning without the hyperbole.\n\n* **If anyone comes to me and does not __hate__ his own father, mother, wife, children, brothers and sisters–yes, and his own life also–he cannot be my disciple.** (Luke 14:26 ULB)\n    * \"If anyone comes to me and does not __love me much more than__ he loves his own father, mother, wife, children, brothers and sisters–yes, and his own life also–he cannot be my disciple.\" \n\n* **The Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel: thirty thousand chariots, six thousand men to drive the chariots, and troops __as numerous as the sand on the seashore__.** (1 Samuel 13:5 ULB)\n    * \"The Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel: thirty thousand chariots, six thousand men to drive the chariots, and __a great number of troops__.\"\n\n\n"
