"===== Word for Word Substitution =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //Why should I not translate using word for word substitution?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_literal|Literal Translations]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_fandm|Form and Meaning]]//\n\n==== Definition ====\n\nA word-for-word substitution is the most literal form of translation. It is not the best choice for doing good translations. A word-for-word translation simply substitutes an equivalent word in the target language for each word in the source language. \n\n=== In word-for-word translations ===\n\n  * The focus is on one word at a time. \n  * The natural sentence structure, phrase structures and figures of speech of the target language are ignored. \n  * The process of word-for-word translation is very simple.\n    * The first word in the source text is translated by an equivalent word. \n    * Then the next word is done. This process continues until the verse is translated. \n  * The word-for-word approach is attractive because it is so simple. However, it results in a poor quality translation.\n\nWord-for-word substitution results in translations that are awkward to read. They are often confusing and give the wrong meaning or even no meaning at all. You should avoid doing this type of translation.\n\n=== Examples ===\n\n== Word Order ==\n\nHere is an example of Luke 3:16 in the ULB: \n\n>As for me, I baptize you with water, but someone is coming who is more powerful than I, and I am not worthy even to untie the strap of his sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.\n\n\nThat translation is clear and easy to understand. But suppose the translators had used the word-for-word method. What would the translation be like?\n\nHere, translated in English, are the words in the same order as the original Greek.\n\n>answered  saying  to all  the  John  I  indeed  with water  baptize  you  he comes  but  who mightier than I of whom not I am worthy untie the strap of the sandals of him he you will baptize with spirit holy and fire\n\nThis translation is awkward and can be hard to understand in English. How does it sound in your language?\n\nLook at the ULB version above again. Notice the difference. The English ULB translators did not keep the original Greek word order. They moved words around in the sentence to fit the rules of English grammar. They also changed some of the phrasing. For example, the English ULB says, \"John answered by saying to them all,\" rather than \"John answered to all saying,\" They used different words to make the text sound natural.\n\nIt is important that the final result communicates the same meaning as the Greek text. \n\nIn this example the ULB is a much better English translation than the awkward word-for-word version.\n\n== Range of Word Meanings ==\n\nIn addition, word-for-word substitution usually does not take into account that most individual words have a range of meanings. In word-for-word translations usually only one meaning is chosen. \n\nFor example, the Greek word //aggelos// can refer to a human messenger or to an angel. \n>\"This is he of whom it is written, 'See, I am sending my __messenger__ before your face, Who will prepare your way before you.' (Luke 7:27)\nHere the word //aggelos// refers to a human messenger. Jesus was talking about John the Baptist.\n>the __angels__ had gone away from them into heaven  (Luke 2:15)\nHere the word //aggelos// refers to angels.\n\nA word-for-word substitution might translate the Greek word in both verses as \"messenger\" or \"angel\" even though it is used to refer to two different kinds of beings.\n\nThis would be confusing to the reader.\n\n== Figures of Speech ==\n\nFinally, word-for-word substitution does not convey the meaning of a figure of speech.\n\nFigures of Speech have meanings that are different from the individual words that they are made up of. When they are translated word-for-word, their meanings are not clear. Even if they are translated so that they follow the normal word order of they language they are translated into, their meaning may not be clear. Please go to the [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_intro]] page to learn more on how to correctly translate them.\n\n\n"
