"---\ntitle: Connecting Words\nquestion: What are connecting words for, and how do I translate them?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: writing_connectingwords\ndependencies: [\"figs_partsofspeech\", \"figs_sentences\"]\nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/writingstyles_connect\ncredits: \n---\n**Connecting words** show how thoughts are related to other thoughts. They are also called **conjunctions**. This page is about connecting words that connect statements and groups of statements to others. Some examples are: and, but, for, so, therefore, now, if, if only, since, then, when, while, whenever, because, yet, unless.\n\n### Description\n\nConnecting words show how thoughts are related to other thoughts. This page is about connecting words that connect statements and groups of statements to others. Some examples of connecting words are: and, but, for, so, therefore, now, if, if only, since, then, when, while, whenever, because, yet, unless.\n\n  * It was raining, __so__  I opened my umbrella.\n  * It was raining, __but__  I did not have an umbrella. __So__ I got very wet.\nSometimes people do not use a connecting word because they expect the readers to understand the relationship between the thoughts because of the context.\n  * It was raining. I did not have an umbrella. I got very wet.\n\n#### Reason this is a translation issue\n\n  * Translators need to understand the meaning of a connecting word in the Bible and the relationship between the thoughts it is connecting.\n  * Each language has its own ways of showing how thoughts are related.\n  * Translators need to know how to help their readers understand the relationship between the thoughts.\n\n#### Translation Principles\n\n  * Translators need to translate in a way that readers can understand the same relationship between thoughts that the original readers would have understood.\n  * Whether or not a connecting word is used is not as important as readers being able to understand the relationship between the ideas.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>__And__ when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took some of its fruit, and ate it. __And__  she gave some also to her husband who was with her, __and__ he ate it.  (Genesis 3:6 ULB)\n\nThe word \"and\" can connect words, phrases, clauses, or sentences. The underlined examples above show where it connects clauses and sentences. In this verse, the event that follows \"and\" happened after the event before \"and\".\n>I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who had become apostles before me, __but__  instead I went to Arabia and then returned to Damascus. __Then__  after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I stayed with him fifteen days.  (Galatians 1:16-18 ULB)\n\nThe word \"but\" introduces something that contrasts with what was said before. The contrast here is between what Paul did not do with what he did do. Here the word \"then\" introduces something Paul did after he returned to Damascus.    \n>Therefore whoever breaks the least one of these commandments and teaches others to do so, will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. __But__  whoever keeps them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. (Matthew 5:19 ULB)\n\nHere the word \"But\" contrasts what one group of people will be called in God's kingdom with what another group of people will be called.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\nIf the way the relationship between thoughts is shown in the ULB would be natural and give the right meaning in your language, then consider using it. If not, here are some other options.\n\n  1. Use a connecting word (even if the ULB does not use one).\n  1. Do not use a connecting word if it would be odd to use one and people would understand the right relationship between the thoughts without it.\n  1. Use a different connecting word.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Use a connecting word (even if the ULB does not use one).\n\n  * **Jesus said to them, \"Come after me, and I will make you become fishers of men.\" Immediately they left the nets and went after him.**  (Mark 1:17-18 ULB) - They followed Jesus because he told them to. Some translators may want to mark this with \"so.\"\n      * \"Jesus said to them, \"Come after me, and I will make you become fishers of men.\" __So__  immediately they left the nets and went after him.\"\n\n2. Do not use a connecting word if it would be odd to use one and people would understand the right relationship between the thoughts without it.\n\n  * **And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took some of its fruit, and ate it. __And__  she gave some also to her husband who was with her, and he ate it.**  (Genesis 3:6 ULB) - The word \"and\" here simply shows that something else happened. Some languages would not need to start the sentence with \"and.\"\n      * \"And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took some of its fruit, and ate it. She also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate it.\" (Genesis 3:6 ULB)\n\n  * **I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who had become apostles before me, __but__  instead I went to Arabia and then returned to Damascus. __Then__  after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I stayed with him fifteen days.**  (Galatians 1:16-18 ULB) Some languages might not need the words \"but\" or \"then\" here.\n      * \"I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who had become apostles before me. Instead I went to Arabia and then returned to Damascus. After three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I stayed with him fifteen days.\n\n3. Use a different connecting word.\n\n  * **Therefore whoever breaks the least one of these commandments and teaches others to do so, will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. __But__  whoever keeps them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.**  (Matthew 5:19 ULB) - The word \"but\" is used here because of the contrast between the two groups of people. But in some languages, the word \"but\" would show that what comes after it is surprising because of what came before it. So \"and\" might be clearer for those languages.\n      * \"Therefore whoever breaks the least one of these commandments and teaches others to do so, will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. __And__  whoever keeps them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.\"\n\n  * **__Since__  the captain could not tell anything because of all the noise, he ordered that Paul be brought into the fortress.**  (Acts 21:34 ULB) - Instead of starting the first part of the sentence with \"since\", some translators might prefer to start the second part of the sentence with \"so\".\n      * \"The captain could not tell anything because of all the noise, __so__  he ordered that Paul be brought into the fortress.\"\n"
