"===== Notes that Explain =====\n\n//This answers the question:// //What translating decision should I make when I see an explanation in the notes?//\n\n//In order to understand this topic, it would be good to read://\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_help|Help with Translating]]//\n  * //[[en:ta:vol1:translate:resources_types|Using the translationNotes]]//\n\n=== Description ====\n\nSometimes you may not know what a word or phrase in the ULB means. And sometimes the same word or phrase is also used in the UDB. So the word or phrase is explained in the notes.\n\nThese explanations are meant to help you understand the word or phrase. Do not translate the explanations into your Bible. Instead use them to help you understand the meanings so you can translate the Bible text correctly.\n\n==== Translation Notes Examples ====\n\nSimple explanations about words or phrases are written as full sentences. They begin with a capital letter and end with a period (\".\"). \n> The fishermen had gotten out of them and were __washing their nets__. (Luke 5:2 ULB) \n\n  * **washing their nets** - They were cleaning their fishing nets in order to use them again to catch fish.\nIf you did not know that fishermen used nets to catch fish, you might wonder why the fishermen were cleaning their nets. This explanation can help you choose good words for \"were washing\" and \"nets.\"\n\n> they __motioned__ to their partners in the other boat  (Luke 5:7 ULB)\n\n  * **motioned**  - They were too far from shore to call so they made gestures, probably waving their arms.\nThis note can help you understand what kind of motion the people made. It was a motion that people would be able to see from a distance. This will help you choose a good word or phrase for \"motioned.\"\n\n> He will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even while in his mother's womb. (Luke 1:14 ULB)\n\n  * **even while in his mother's womb** - The word \"even\" here indicates that this is especially surprising news. People had been filled with the Holy Spirit before, but no one had heard of an unborn baby's being filled with the Holy Spirit.\nThis note can help you understand what the word \"even\" means in this sentence, so you can find a way of showing how surprising this was.\n"
