"---\ntitle: Symbolic Language\nquestion: What is symbolic language and how do I translate it?\nmanual: translate\nvolume: 2\nslug: writing_symlanguage\ndependencies: [\"writing_intro\"] \nstatus:  review\ntags: \nrecommended: \noriginal_url: https://door43.org/en/ta/workbench/translate/symboliclanguage\ncredits: \n---\nSymbolic language in speech and writing is the use of symbols to represent other things and events. In the Bible it occurs most in prophecy and poetry, especially in visions and dreams about things that will happen in the future. Though people may not immediately know the meaning of a symbol, it is important to keep the symbol in the translation.\n\n### Description\n\nSymbolic language in speech and writing is the use of symbols to represent other things and events. In the Bible it occurs most in prophecy and poetry, especially in visions and dreams about things that will happen in the future.\n>Eat this scroll, then go speak to the house of Israel.\" (Ezekiel 3:1 ULB) \n\nThis was in a dream. Eating the scroll is a symbol of reading and understanding well what was written on the scroll.\n\nOne purpose of symbolism is to help people understand the importance or severity of an event by calling it another. Another purpose of symbolism is to tell people about something that they would be able to understand while hiding the true meaning from others.\n\n**Reason this is a translation issue:**  People who read the Bible today may find it hard to recognize that the language is symbolic, and they may not know what the symbol stands for.\n\n**Translation Principle:**  When symbolic language is used, it is important to keep the symbol in the translation. It is also important not to explain it more than the original speaker or writer did, since he may not have wanted everyone living then to be able to understand it easily.\n\n### Examples from the Bible\n\n>After this I saw in my dream at night __a fourth animal__, terrifying, frightening, and very strong. It had __large iron teeth__; it devoured, broke in pieces, and trampled underfoot what was left. It was different from the other animals, and it had __ten horns__. (Daniel 7:7 ULB)\n\nThe meaning of the underlined symbols is explained in Daniel 7:23-24 as shown below. The animals represent kingdoms, iron teeth represent a powerful army, and the horns represent powerful leaders.\n>This is what that person said, 'As for the fourth animal, it will be __a fourth kingdom__  on earth that will be different from all the other kingdoms. It will devour the whole earth, and it will trample it down and break it into pieces. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom __ten kings__  will arise, and another will arise after them. He will be different from the previous ones, and he will conquer the three kings. (Daniel 7:23-24 ULB)\n\n\n<blockquote>I turned around to see whose voice was speaking to me, and as I turned I saw __seven golden lampstands__. In the middle of the lampstands there was one like a Son of Man, … He had in his right hand __seven stars__, and coming out of his mouth was __a sharp two-edged sword__…. As for the hidden meaning about the seven stars you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands: __the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches__, and __the seven lampstands are the seven churches__. (Revelation 1:12, 16, 20 ULB) </blockquote>\n\nThis passage explains the meaning of the seven lampstands and the seven starts. The two-edged sword represents God's word and judgment.\n\n### Translation Strategies\n\n  1. Translate the text with the symbols. Often the speaker or author explains the meaning later in the passage.\n  1. Translate the text with the symbols. Then explain the symbols in footnotes.\n\n### Examples of Translation Strategies Applied\n\n1. Translate the text with the symbols. Often the speaker or author explains the meaning later in the passage.\n\n  * **After this I saw in my dream at night __a fourth animal__, terrifying, frightening, and very strong. It had __large iron teeth__; it devoured, broke in pieces, and trampled underfoot what was left. It was different from the other animals, and it had __ten horns__.**  (Daniel 7:7 ULB) - People will be able to understand what the symbols mean when they read the explanation in Daniel 7:23-24.\n\n2. Translate the text with the symbols. Then explain the symbols in footnotes.\n\n  * **After this I saw in my dream at night __a fourth animal__, terrifying, frightening, and very strong. It had __large iron teeth__; it devoured, broke in pieces, and trampled underfoot what was left. It was different from the other animals, and it had __ten horns__.**  (Daniel 7:7 ULB)\n      * \"After this I saw in my dream at night a fourth animal,<sup>1</sup>   terrifying, frightening, and very strong. It had large iron teeth;<sup>2</sup>   it devoured, broke in pieces, and trampled underfoot what was left. It was different from the other animals, and it had ten horns.\"<sup>3</sup> The footnotes would look like:\n          * <sup>[1]</sup>  The animal is a symbol for a kingdom. \n          * <sup>[2]</sup>  The iron teeth is a symbol for the kingdom's powerful army.  \n          * <sup>[3]</sup>  The horns are a symbol of powerful kings.  \n"
